# Brian Dean — Brian Dean: How I'd Build a Business in 2026 (Zero SEO Dependency)

**Channel**: Backlinko (featuring Brian Dean interview)

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9i8PQph-oF0

**Date**: Jun 13, 2025

## Transcript
everybody knows is the SEO guy. How is your use of Google and just search changing right now? Changed dramatically. I was a skeptic when Judge D came out that it would be something that could threaten Google search. And with Google, with all the talk about personalization they've had for like 15 years about personalized search results, you and I both know they're essentially the same for everybody. You had to build another company going forward where you couldn't rely on SEO at all. Like there was no organic traffic. How would you be thinking about the channel mix for that business going forward? It's definitely time to create a YouTube channel. How do you think of just as the first step of SEO keyword research? These searches are so insanely different than what we're used to. They're not even the same paradigm. What tactics do you think may have been particularly relevant in the past that are maybe coming back around again today? Hey, I am super excited for today's video. I had the chance to sit down with Brian Dean, the founder of Backlinko, and just catch up on all things SEO, content marketing, and AI in 2025. I think the best part about this conversation is Brian has been out of the game for a little bit, at least. He's been kind of taking a break focusing more tennis than building marketing programs. He sold his last company, Exploding Topics, at the end of 2024, and he's been out of Backo for a few years now. So, I really just wanted to know how is he seeing the changes in the world right now? How is he thinking about SEO differently than he did before? and just generally building a business, building a brand, thinking about content marketing. Uh we had a pretty wide-ranging conversation and I'm really excited for you to hear it. Let's go ahead and dive in. Hey Brian, welcome back to Back Linko. I'm excited to catch up on everything that's new in the SEO world and with you. I'm first just curious, what have you been up to since uh it's been like what 6 months or so, maybe a little bit longer since you sold Exploding Topics, your second company. What have you been up to? How's how's life? Life is good. Life is good. I've been pretty much spending a lot of time on the tennis court. Um, it's something that I was really into before I sold and now that I have a little bit more time spending more time there. I'm also doing some work for Exploding Topics, which is great that I still get to work with the team there. And uh, even though it's really been integrated into Semrush now, the the platform is now as part of the app center and the blog is kind of running on its own. Um, I'm still contributing there as much as I can. Yeah, I actually saw you did an interview or had a conversation with the the video host over at Exploiting Topics and he was talking about AI and SEO and and you had mentioned your your tennis that you've been doing a lot recently and also dealing with an injury and how you've been kind of leaning on chatbt for like how to recuperate from that injury. I'm curious, we talked about it a little bit like 6 months ago when we we last had a long conversation. I'm curious how is your world changing with the the advent and like just continual growth of LMS chatbt or claude seeing more AI reviews in the SERs like it's evolving at such a rapid pace and I'm just curious like how are you who everybody knows is is like the SEO guy how is your use of Google and just search changing right now it changed dramatically and I was a skeptic when chachi came out that it would be something that could threaten in Google search because I saw them as two totally different things where you would use GBT for certain tasks. For example, you wanted to create a poem, you wanted to create an image, you wanted to generate something. That was sort of the idea behind generative AI. And then you would use Google to search because it's so much faster than ChatgPT at doing that. And it didn't have AI summaries yet, a overviews. It was just feature snippets and the search results. Same as it was 10 years ago. more recently, mostly because of the historical memory that Chachi in particular is incorporating into their models, I'm using it more and more because it's just so much easier to literally be like, remember this thing we're talking about? Boom. And with Google, with all the talk about personalization they've had for like 15 years about personalized search results, you and I both know they're essentially the same for everybody. Sometimes localized, but Yeah, exactly. Definitely localized. I will give them that. If you're in a different country or area and you search for a term that's ambiguous, they'll pump the one that's closer to you. But if you search for the same thing like 50 times and you search on the you click on the number three result, they all 50 times the 51st time is still going to be number three. They haven't even got to that level of personalization where there was the the SERs were really customized for you very much. They were to a certain extent. So the last 6 months for me have been huge for using CHT. one because of memory and two because it proactively searches so much more than it used to and that is the game changer. It basically took perplexity and just put it into the app and just crush them. So that that's kind of so I I think it's so it's crazy because like when we last spoke you you had that skepticism still. So how much has changed just in the last 6 months with your use your understanding and your kind of belief about what the future of this technology looks like? It's just changing so fast. I for myself also similarly am really kind of happy with the way chat PD specifically works with memory like it just is learning so much about me and my like the type of information I want to consume how to present it to me and I can just see that continuing to accelerate going forward I haven't really noticed it as much from Google if they are doing it I can't imagine they're too far behind like the technology is definitely there and I I specifically love that chatb and claude and perplexi all these different systems are like forcing Google to innovate and they are seemingly struggling with how to do it, but it's it's causing the whole industry to evolve much more rapidly than it was before. One question I wanted to ask you is like now that you can see the way these systems work and where we're trending. If you had to build another company like Backlink Co. We're building topics like primarily based on just information that people consume and then you want them to eventually convert into a course or buying a product. If you had to build another company going forward where you couldn't rely on SEO at all, like there was no organic traffic, what channels would like how would you be thinking about the channel mix for that business going forward? I would be thinking more in terms of personal brands than channels because there's not that many channels left honestly. Like if you look at back in the day when I first started back linko for example in 2013 you know there were a lot of channels because blogging was more of um a distributed ecosystem where if you got a mention on someone else's blog that was a big blog that was massive and they could send a lot of traffic your way or get mentioned in someone's newsletter for example that was huge too now it's more like there's only a few platforms left and there are like a handful there's Google still and YouTube LinkedIn in Twitter X and now the LLMs. There really aren't that many channels to go after. So, I wouldn't be looking at channel specific stuff. Instead, I'd be like, how can I build a brand or take advantage of a brand that's already doing well on one or more of these platforms? So, it's a little bit different of a perspective because the channels are so few and so saturated. It's hard to be like the best brand on LinkedIn, for example. But, if you have a personal brand that can stand out on all these platforms, that's how I would I would do it. So, it' be a mix of that and also trying to optimize for LLMs because I do think there's a lot of traffic to be had there. Um, if you know you can't do use Google, I would still go use traditional SEO stuff for sure, but if I couldn't, then that will be replaced with more optimizing for LLMs. Yeah, I completely agree with their approach. I think the challenge that I'm seeing right now for the work that I'm doing and also every other company out there is like how do you prioritize if if before your main focus was like as an SEO was we do keyword research, we create content, we build links and we get we have this impact in in the company that we work for for our clients or our in-house team. Now it's like all right, you have to start be thinking about this not just on Google but on YouTube and LinkedIn and Reddit. You you potentially have to be in all these different places. How do you think we should be thinking as SEOs, as content marketers about the skills that we've learned in the previous era of SEO? Um, obviously you like creating great content, like what what are the skills that we've learned that feel like they're going to be the most relevant going forward as we're trying to evolve our strategies and just how we approach work and reaching new customers. I think the number one skill will be creating content for humans and machines. in this case is just going to be a different machine you're optimizing for. So instead of a search engine, it's going to be an LLM because I think the best SEOs in the world are those that aren't so focused on title tags, but they're also not just let's write a bunch of good stuff and the Google will find us and take care of itself because that's naive and that's not really the case. The best people in SEO are the ones that can combine those two things and can see both perspectives. Like when a search engines lands on this page, they're going to like it because of X, Y, and Z. when a human lands on this page, they're going to like it because of X, Y, and Z. I think it's going to be very similar for LLMs in the sense you're going to have to write helpful content, it's going to be a lot harder to optimize for because like you said, like we don't have the keyword research model anymore where you can go through that same process. But if you have helpful content on your site that LLMs will want to use to train on and also to site when you ask it a question, you're going to be in good shape. Um, if you just write great content and hope for the best and hope that LLMs finds you, it's the same sort of perspective that if I just write great content, I'm going to rank number one in Google. It never really works that way. And I don't think it's going to work that way with LLM. Yeah. And I want to break that down. So, we I think we bro definitely agree that like the first step of traditional SEO is keyword research. And I'm trying to think of how is that evolving? Like even if I just think of how I if I'm using an LLM, how my prompts are much longer. Sometimes I'm writing out a full sentence. Sometimes I'm turning on voice mode and asking like talking at a full paragraph about the the thing that I want help with. So it's no longer best SEO tools or how to build a content strategy. It's like how do I build a content strategy for my e-commerce brand where we're trying to reach this type of customer. Um, how do you think like as far as being able to use our existing tools or not even just our tools? We've got our our Sum Rushes of the world, our Google search, like our our ways of getting traditional keyword data to still try and understand what are people searching for, but how do we kind of shift that perspective into more thinking about topics um potentially, but like not throwing it away and saying like don't use keyword research or worse yet, I think go ask JB to do your keyword research for you because yeah, you do want some sort of basis on like people are actually searching for this. there is a demand for this question or this problem and and I need to create content around that topic. So, how do you how do you think of just as the first step of SEO keyword research? Yeah, I agree with you that it's it's less about keywords and more about topics for sure because those like exact phrases that people are typing into Google, it's not like they're just moving them over to Chacht. Like you said, Lee, these searches are so insanely different than what we're used to. They're not even the same paradigm because not only are they just phrased totally differently, they're really long like you mentioned, they're very specific to everyone's use case. Or they might say specifically, I want the best SEO tools except for X, Y, and Z because I already know about those like things that we wouldn't even know to optimize for back in the day. So for me, I use keyword research and a tool like Seamrush as more like ideas of what are people interested in? What are people searching for problems for? And that they will search in ChachiBT as well. Like if someone's searching for like how to cure knee pain or how to, you know, dress better in the summer, those people are going to be just asking the same questions chachu. Those are things that are evergreen that are will always be asked. The big difference is how they will be asked in chatubt because person's going to say I'm 5'11 and blah blah blah all these personal details and you can't optimize for that nor should you but if you have relevant content about that then you you have surface area where you is a chance that you could be the the reference and the citation for that answer in an LLM. Yeah. I think the biggest thing is I I want people to realize that like the fundamentals of of a lot of what we're talking about and thinking about going forward are still important. I keep seeing so much about like SEO is dead or like the future of SEO is AIO or GEO or whatever variation and I just I want people to to remember to stay focused on the stuff that works and just evolve the strategy. So keyword research isn't dead but it should be evolved in this direction. you're still trying to understand what are people searching for and and how can you reach them. Um, and I think SEOs in particular compared to every other marketing department because every everybody at within the organization is trying to figure out how to deal with AI because it's not just coming for SEO, it's going for everything. But we we're particularly well situated to figure out what people want um based on what they're searching for doing that keyword research and then also the way we craft our our pages. So the next step after after doing keyword research like how would you think about um just the the creating content for going forward you mentioned the importance of being human focused like is there anything if you look back on the way you approach backlink content early on that you would change right now in terms of just overall format multimedia stuff like that like that being the second step in the SEO process creating content not really actually because I think that you don't want to go all in on LMS and just pretend and Google's dead because it's far from dead. So, I would still write for Google first and then as and then that authority will hopefully translate to LLMs. The big difference is, you know, a big factor for um content that ranked in Google was like the the engagement metrics from users, right? Click-through rate, dwell time, how long they spent on the page. But if you're part of a summary that is an answer from a prompt in an LLM, it doesn't really matter how compelling your content is, which is kind of weird to look at it, but it's true. So, if I was just optimizing for LLMs, my stuff might be a little more on the more personal side. So, it might be more like my perspective is this is it and here's something I did. And that way, the the LLM will be incentivized to train on that. If you just have generic content, it's already been trained on it a 100 times. already seen the same thing a 100 times. It's harder for you to sort of get in there. So, I would still write like I did in the ear maybe even more in the earlier days of Back Linko where it was more like, "Hey, I'm trying this thing and here's how it worked and here's like 10 strategies that no one's talking about that I'm using." That way, when someone is, you know, prompts an LLM and says, "Hey, tell tell me 10 SEO strategies that I can use to optimize my site." They're going to get the ones they've seen 100 times and they're going to say, "No, no, no. I want some new ones, some fresh ones." And it's going to go into the training data there. So for me, I wouldn't write totally different because a Google's still going to send you likely much more traffic than LLM's at this point. So I wouldn't just throw the baby out in the bathwater yet for years. But also, I would still I wouldn't want to be too like authoritative and generic because I don't think that's going to help you get cited unless you're like a huge brand already. Yeah. And also I think just that kind of content was always boring. And I think people are are really I I'm personally excited about the future of content marketing to be a lot less boring, a lot less how do we just tinker around the edges to create the best content. Um I love the the skyscraper technique that you've laid out, but like I think the internet is ready to to move past that because it it was something that worked really effectively, but it wasn't necessarily always the the best result for the user. Now we're it's not about just gamifying the metrics. It's really about how can you create the most compelling piece of content possible that reaches the person reading it where they are. And I've been really really happy with kind of the the the foundation that you laid over the years building back in terms of our ability to to continue performing well because of the way that your your content style like the your writing style was already positioned to to do well in this era and the the investments that you made in data studies that you were I think just interested in in like the link potential of them and and also being able to reference them in your post. like being able to to mention we did this study, we we surveyed these people or we did an analysis and we found this hard data point and now we're going to talk about the rest of our strategy and we're also going to um confirm it with like we have this much traffic, we're getting these kinds of results. Like that kind of content seems to be very important to LM because they're they're they're looking for novel information. and they're looking for yeah the 10 strategies that I that nobody's ever seen before that might be relevant and just you the fact that you set that foundation kind of unintentionally to work really well for the era is has been really great to work with and now for us it's like how do we double down on what was working before how do we just like align that and and bring back more of those data studies where one people really want to know like what what's happening with CTR what's happening with AI reviews like how are marketers thinking about spend like what are all the things that we can do to bring more to the conversation that's relevant both for our content on the blog, but also just people want to talk about it on social. They want to um have a positive association with your brand where like you you brought something new and helpful to the conversation. So, it's something we're we're trying to do. And I would encourage just every other company out there to like find that angle for their business where it's Yes. Get the SEO value out of it, but also kind of leverage it as much as possible beyond SEO with the other channels that you're interested in. Yeah, for sure. And get and and get mentioned on other sites as much as possible because you will that they'll train on that and you will be one of the answers, you know. So for example like best SEO platforms that Seamrush gets mentioned across the web the more likely they are to be included in that because you know Chajbet and is just training on that and seeing over and over again that Seamrush is listed on these lists they're more likely to show up when someone uses it in a prompt and those studies will be a great way to do that because it grabs attention like nothing else. Yeah. And so we talked about keyword research and con like building content and I think link building is the other big piece where obviously Backlinko has a really really high authority score. Pick your other favorite metric. It's one of the top websites on the internet because of how many links it's acquired over time. And it's it's a solid foundation for us to continue growing on. But as far as the way you're thinking about links going forward, so it's more not just optimizing for page rank that you want to be mentioned. like is there anything in particular that you think you did really well that aside from the the mentions of it's what tactics do you think may have been particularly relevant in the past that are maybe coming back around again today like I'm for example curious about guest post but on like the the higher quality end and thinking about stuff maybe SEOs don't do that anymore but maybe they should again yeah I agree with you Lee it's not about page rank so much but those links probably are a factor when an LLM is deciding whether to use site A or site B as a source because a lot of times the training data is gigantic. Like just look at best SEO platforms. How many perspectives do you think they have on the best SEO platforms? Like hundreds and hundreds and hundreds. So they have to distill that down to a couple and whe and whether you want to get mentioned in the in the answer, that's where those mentions across the web can help. But if you want to get cited as one of the sites that's talking about the best SEO platforms, I think links are going to be a factor they use because it's just a great signal. Like Google's been trying to get away from links almost since the day they started using them because people started gaming them right away and they're like, "We need to find something out." So they tried social signals and clickthrough rate and dwell time and a bunch of other stuff and they have of course deemphasized links over the years, but it's just a good signal and they just no other way about it. So, if I'm an LLM and I want to know um if someone's asking me a question and I want to site five different sources, I'm not going to choose five arbitrarily, I want to choose five that have the most trust and authority. You get back to the same OG problem that Google had. How do you determine trust and authority and it's from links? So, I think links will still be a huge factor for you getting cited as a ref as a source for answers. And then like you said Lee the other the other element will be like how can you get people to mention you online a lot your brand to be included on these lists so when someone does prompt it you are they're training on ah this tool is the best or this service is the best for this specific use case that's old school PR guest posting going on interviews getting mentions and just creating something that's worth talking about and that's usually the easiest way to do it because then you don't have to go one by one to get all these mentions If you create a cool industry study or do something interesting or create a great product, people will naturally list you on these things and then you just need to add fuel to the fire. Yeah. And I'm hopeful that it just it opens our our kind of boundaries of what's possible, what what is worth doing. Um I think in the past like SEOs were were focused if we're going to do link building like we have to get a link. If if there's no followed link at the end of the tunnel, then it's not worth our time. Whereas now, if the SEO team or the traditional SEO outreach team is thinking about I just need like I want to go get highquality relevant mentions from as many places as possible, how do I do that? like one, I'm going to do my traditional prospecting and find my opportunities, but I'm going to give a second look at the sites that don't link out. or I'm going to look at the sites that maybe specifically lean on affiliate partnerships and I should plan to either collaborate with that team or or figure out how to set up a program that maybe it won't be directly attributed to me. But if there's all of a sudden 50 blog posts out there that are uh listicles talking about how awesome your product is and you're you got some links out of it, but maybe small percentage of the the total mix, but now you have 50 new pieces of information that are being fed into the algorithm and and uh influencing when your site is going to be referenced if somebody's asking LM. Um, yeah. So, I I hopefully it just like opens up our perspective of how we should be operating, kind of breaking out of the silo. I'm overall like really excited about not just thinking about we do the blog posts and the other teams do the other things that the affiliate team, the paid team, the social team, like it all needs to kind of come together because the best SEOs are are like you said earlier, they're the ones that are not just focused on the title tag. They're the ones that are just overall thinking about growth. How do we reach people where they are? And um I think we're just going to keep seeing it more in that direction. So um I'm curious. I want to talk a little bit about video because obviously this is one of the your first videos on the new Backlinko channel and you created an amazing blog initially and then eventually a really successful YouTube channel with over a half a million subscribers. Um how did you think about video and what was the transition from creating blog posts to video? Because I think right now so many different teams have have opted not to invest in it including myself because of like the challenge of getting started. Like it's a different process. You need to the the production looks different. You need to get a a camera uh and think about editing. So people have underinvested in this channel for or this medium for a very long time. Like how did you begin that transition and and what value do do you see it having going forward? I started it because yeah, it was there was a sort of a supply and demand opportunity where no one was talking about SEO and YouTube. It was so early in that there wasn't even a lot of business content. It was before the gurus started like going crazy on there. So, there was an opportunity to just teach SEO in a very like the videos in the early days weren't anything special, but they did well because there just wasn't any competition in terms of SEO content on YouTube. and people would search on YouTube and it would come up, you know, I ranked number one YouTube for SEO for years on you YouTube videos would rank and still do rank well on Google. Um, but like you said, Lee, the there's still an amazing amount of upside somehow with video because it's like it seems like how is that possible that the explosion of of YouTube in particular, how is it possible there's still upside? But there is but the opportunity I think is actually closing a little bit because so many brands are freaked out over AI and they see YouTube as an AI proof space. So there's sort of flooding there saying oh if Google's going away and we can't rely on that anymore and con and like content marketing from the traditional writing generic blog post is going away because AI can do it then what's left and there's a lot left but to a lot of people it's YouTube is the like port of you know safety for them. So, I do think there's going to be more a flood of videos on there coming up from the especially in the B2B space, but there's still a ton of perspective. So, I still see a tremendous opportunity to create a YouTube channel and a presence on YouTube because there's still a supply and demand issue because the demand is so insane that it's almost hard to meet it. Um, even if there's like 10,000 new channels a day, it's still going to be hard to meet it because there's just such demand for content on YouTube, especially in specific niche topics that your brand might be perfect to write about. You know, like if you know how to like solder, you know, microchips or something, your that channel can really stand out because there's a lot of people on there want to see that and there's probably not a lot of good channels on there. So if you were writing you have a blog about that, it's definitely time to create a YouTube channel about the same thing. Yeah. Well, so I'm curious for for you like we're essentially we need starting from scratch because a lot of the videos you created for Backco are just are fairly out of date at this point. A lot of them still rank well because the engagement signals I'm sure are are great and some of the the content is evergreen. Um, but how how do you think as a company as a an asset like Backode looking to get back into it or essentially now like starting fresh? How do how should we approach it so that we can be successful so we can stand out from the noise? Um realizing that there's a lot more competition than when you started. Uh there's more companies starting to flood in as you said because they're trying to look for ways to um deal with declining organic traffic. Yeah. The first thing I would do is create a first video as fast as possible. Um, you know, usually I'm more like strategic about plan this and then six months out you do this. But I think with video it's one of those things. It's a tricky format like you mentioned Lee about you got to get a camera and a mic and then there's editing and there's thumbnails and there's a title and the title and the thumbnail have to match up and then the video has to start strong and you need to marry all these things. Like it's it's something like you almost have to learn to swim by jumping into the deep end a little bit. So I would find one person on the team who's going to be like in charge of the video. It can be a collaborative effort of course, but one person should be in charge of doing videos. And then from there, you're going to learn a lot more from your first 10 videos than anything I could share because it's a it's its own thing. Even if you're good at making videos, which I've had this experience a lot where I've worked with people with my my personal channel back in the day who were amazing at at making editing videos, like they would, you know, you see those videos from events and they have like the flowing camera over the table, people talking and then there's the drone footage and like it looks unbelievable. But it's not necessarily good for a YouTube video. So, a lot of times they lack that like intuition about what works well on social and a lot of times it's actually more gritty, a little uglier, a little more personal. Um, that works better than the super polished look. So, I would definitely start creating like I would plan out the first two videos or three videos about what you want them to be and get those out as fast as possible. And then you're going to learn quickly how to make a video, what works well, what doesn't. And then specifically the hardest part is what works well for you and your audience. And that no one can really teach that because you need to go out there and start making videos and then you're going to figure out, oh, this worked. Wow, this video we thought was going to do poorly did great. And this video we thought were going to crush and no one watched and it happen. It will happen like a hundred times. It'll always almost always be the opposite of what you think, but then eventually the light bulb will go off and you'll be like, "Oh, now I see the pers now I see this like perspective." and you can just double down on what's working and eliminate what's not working. Yeah, I think that's super helpful advice and um I'll definitely take it on board. I think the for for me like the challenge of we like if you've really nailed down how to handle a blog content production process. You you've got your your brief process, your research process. You you know who's going to be writing it, the editing, the screenshots, all of that. Like you you know like every piece you're putting out is going to be topnotch. Like that that's the the bare minimum. And when you go to a new medium, it's you're you're learning something new from the from scratch. So, you don't know exactly how the format works. You don't know what level of production you need to reach for versus like can it be rough around the edges. Um, but I'm I'm learning very rapidly like it is just about reps. It's like just get in front of the camera, record, share the idea, figure out how to edit, redo the intro. Like I think with with content, with blog posts as well as videos, you can always republish. You can always with blog post you can change the the last updated date and refresh it same URL. For video you essentially can as well. You just need to get into the the swing of things so that you can learn from the algorithm. See what works and what doesn't. No one's really going to remember what doesn't. Um and just in general like the the quality thing like that that you want some like basic you want a clear camera and good audio but like it doesn't need to be the fanciest studio in the world. You don't need to be the most professional. Even like unrelated to backo when I'm working on my my e-commerce brand and doing videos like I tried to do a photo shoot like an expensive five figure photo shoot with models and everything like that content that came out of that was sign significantly underperforms the the 30 second video of just UGC creators trying on the product talking about it to the camera and telling people to go check out the website like I would have been like oh no this this way is I need to spend 10,000 like have that as a baseline fine and then maybe this other thing will work. But like people just want to consume content that like meets them where they are that like Yeah. It appeals to them and they don't really care if it's the most polished thing in the world. Like it just needs to be relevant to them. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. I that's been my experience too is that the pipeline is actually kind of similar in a way with the blog posts to videos. Like you come up with a topic, you determine whether there's demand for the topic, you create an outline, like it's still written to start with. You know, the best videos are still written scripts to start with, then you write a script, and then you film it, then you edit it, and then it's ready for production. You get the graphics together. So like that pipeline is not that different. The difference is because it's a new medium that you're trying for the first time with Back Linko because everything's so dialed in because you've been running it for so long now and you have every the process dialed in. It's like a marching band. Everything's like boom boom boom. But now you got to be like a jazz band. We're improvising every day. Every every video that you create starting from scratch. Yeah, that's good. That's how it should be because you how could you have a process for something that you haven't done a 100 times yet? So it's but it's definitely a different feeling, a different skill set, a totally different approach. Um, and some people like that early days, like everything changes every day. And some people are more about scaling. Yeah. And it's, you know, so it depends. If you like scaling, you can get there eventually. You can obviously scale a YouTube channel to massive numbers. But when you're first starting out, it's about creating those like first five, 10, 15, 20 videos. And then you're going to have so many takeaways, interesting nuggets. You know, you're going to actually, and it also is practically you're building an audience as you go, right? like the first you're not building an audience until you start publishing videos. So you once you start creating these videos, not only for learning, even if it was just for learning, it would be worth it. Even if you just put them out there and they went to the ether and you got information back, it would still be worth it. But the good part is a bonus is that as you're creating these videos, people are watching them. People are writing comments. I like this, I didn't like that, or what about whatever. They're subscribing to your channel. They're giving you views. They're they're boosting up. So you also build that audience over time. And that can only happen as you start pumping out videos. Yeah. I I think for for that, like trying to lay out that story, especially if you're trying to pitch this to your boss or a client, like it doesn't need to be we need to spend half a million dollars on video over the next year and it's going to have this impact. Like you can be a little bit scrappier with it. Like we see we we did an analysis on the keywords that we we care about right now and videos are showing up 25% of the time. We really think like this is something we're missing out on. Um, but we we don't have the pieces in place right now. We don't know exactly how to do this. Like, let's go and do our first two videos. Let's get the jazz band together and and try to to to uh to roll out the the first ones and see what we learn. Hopefully get some traction and then go forward. I think sometimes people maybe maybe CMOs are reluctant to try something or there's just like a culture where you can't fail internally. Um, but if if you can tell the story, set the stakes at a reasonable level, and actually like make a good shot at the initial um effort, then you're you're probably going to be successful. It's not might not be the easiest thing in the world, but um I think it's definitely worthwhile and just critical. I think people want to they're not consuming blog posts anymore. like the way I I I consume way more YouTube videos and just long form and short form videos than really any other content format um including podcast. So I'm I'm finally catching up to the what I consume. Um for Yeah, I just I think people are past like when was the last time you read a really long blog post? No idea. The master of the long form blog post. Yeah, you used to, but like it's just it's not the way we consume information anymore. Like there's so many other options that are more personal. Like you when you're reading a blog post, like especially if you're not you haven't like bookmarked their feed or whatever you did back in 2013, uh if you can like see some a host like that you care about and believe like actually knows what they talk about, like that's going to be way more persuasive than any sort of written format. Yeah. The only problem the only problem with video in that sense is that you can't measure it nearly as well. So that CMO you're talking to you got to be like as crazy as this sounds forget results. Not because there won't be any but because you're going to have a hard time drawing a straight line between a video and an outcome. It's so difficult. But what you can what I could you can usually tell them is like look this other channel in our niche or in our adjacent niche gets let's say 200,000 views per month on their videos all all said and done. Like do you think it'd be bad if we got 200,000 people seeing our brand every month? Yeah. Seeing our product, seeing our workflows. Yeah. And like in a very memorable format much more than a blog post in a format. Yeah. Or Yeah. Or or an ad on Google search or or LinkedIn. Like it's I think what marketers what we need to be doing and and like telling our executive leaders like it's okay if everything isn't measurable. like the the fact that we got into this weird world where everything was tracked with cookies and like we could try and dial things down perfectly like um that was always kind of a weird it was a historically new thing in marketing compared to did the the magazine ad work, did the TV ads work, did the all of the the traditional formats that people mastered and built really great businesses from. We just somehow overindexed to this like it has to be measurable and if it's not measurable, it's not worthwhile. Um, yeah, I think if you can go find this company is doing x amount of views and like you can still forecast, you can try to work with the finance team and and build out a model. We think that of 200,000 views if we're able to reach that like it will convert at a similar percentage as a display ad or something like you can still model out expected impact and not just be like ah we don't have no idea how this is going to impact like hopefully people just like our logo and remember us. Um, so you you can come you can both tell the story like this is going to be harder to measure, but we think we can at least come up with a band a low to high end of what we think is possible. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It depends on your company, right? Like if if you're a company that is a big modeler of outcomes and wants measures than measurements for everything, then like you said, there's no nothing wrong doing some back of the envelope math. But if you're at a company where it's more like just try it and then, you know, tell me how it goes on that platform, then that's a good situation to be in. It's pretty rare though because well the the thing is I think we're like being forced to do that more as as SEO specifically right now because if you look at Backlinko's rankings over the last six months, they're higher than they've ever been before. um which I'm proud of, but traffic as of March is is trending down because AI reviews really ticked up. Um at the the low end estimates um the the tools right now, Zamrush is estimating like a quarter of um our keywords are showing an AI review. I think that's low um because what we as like as the tool companies need to figure out is how to account for the personalization. How do you account for what different experiences Google is providing to people that are logged in, especially when it's a more expensive search query like an AI review? It's not just the the same result that they can show to everybody if they're trying to personalize it for you. So, I think the the number of AI reviews that are being shown is much higher than that. I don't have hard data on it. Uh there are some tools out there a little more nibble that are kind of trying to to figure this out spoofing Google login but um either way I I think they're showing it more and I would be surprised if the trend doesn't continue. Um I'm I'm kind of looking forward to the day where AI mode rolls out at least at least as like maybe not the default but like choose one. Do you want traditional YouTube or traditional Google or AI mode? So it's it's happening and we just need to be comfortable with like traffic is down. Um, but if you look at the last three months, our impressions are higher than they've ever been before. So, we've got this decoupling of impressions and traffic, which means that we're still having an impact for the work that we did, and we just need to think about it differently. It's no longer we got SEO visitor to click on our our result as much um and then they came to the website. We cook at them and figured out how they converted and we got the credit for it. um we we need to tell the story that the work that we've invested in is not lost. It's just having a different impact now and we have to change how we approach things going forward. So I think even the most data data oriented companies need to to be a little bit flexible with the fact that the data is changing. Yeah. And it honestly wasn't even that great to begin with. like it was better than a magazine ad which was I can't imagine those days of just hoping that it you know it's like the old expression half your marketing budget's wasted you just don't know which half that's always been true and then like you said it wasn't true for a while and now it's true again um but I don't think the tracking was that great to begin with anyway um it was better than you know what we're going to deal with in the future but because of cookies but even then there were so many times where it's like first attribution last attribution how and find you in the first place. For example, you know, someone is um watching short form video and someone mentions Back Linko by name. So they Google it and they land on the page and then they sign up for the newsletter and they get cookie. So they came from Google, right? Not no because they came from a short form video on YouTube or Tik Tok or Instagram. Yeah. So it's even then it was a little bit hard to really know what was happening. So, I was always a big believer in just like more like get a lot of impressions, get a lot of traffic, and then the rest sort of takes care of itself. And taking a step back from the Google traffic, like even though you know traffic's down because of AI overviews, it's still a massive number, I'm sure, compared to what you could expect from any other. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um, no, Google is by far the most important ch channel for for Back Linko, but and we're not slowing down. What we're trying to do is just trying to how do we maximize the the value that we're getting. So if we're still if traffic is going down, but we're we're seeing how AI overviews evolve and we definitely have not seen the final state of them in terms of how they do links out like they're going to like Google as a platform needs to figure out how to not completely dis disincentivize the open web if they want to have information and even in chatba like you these these experiences are evolving so fast like you could see the whole like which experience do you like better left side right side right side has links out to we um I don't know you were looking at best restaurants to eat best I was doing this best Indian restaurants to eat in Philly and it was like here we found this conversation on Reddit we found this one on Trip Advisor we found this and like it did link out to these pages um which before it would have just given me the the bulleted list and I wouldn't be able to click out. So I think it's it is evolving and we need to continue creating the content to feed the algorithm and then just getting it distributed as many places as possible. How can we take the research that we're doing for the blog, turn it into a video, turn it into short form content, write on LinkedIn Pulse, go be active in some way on Reddit? Like, don't do don't try to do everything all at once, but like think holistically like that is the whole search ecosystem now. And you need to to at least consider how it all fits into your particular products or services. Yep. And it probably helps prevent you like even just old school Google SEO. I think all that stuff helps you from updates, getting nailed from updates. If you look at the people that got hit the most from like the helpful content update and some others, not always, but a lot of them were just predominantly Google brands. They had really no presence off of Google whatsoever. And I I'm perfectly fine with like it's it's a painful process if like for the companies that built their their not even businesses like if if they built their livelihood around just one channel like even if it was like the most wellressearched affiliate content about mattresses or plants or or what like whatever category that they did like the business was I expect to forever be rewarded from Google for this traffic. And on the user perspective, like I I obviously as an SEO know when a site rank is ranking in the first position and the way they're organizing their top 10 list that the affiliate links like I'm sure the one at the top is the one that gives 20%, the one in the bottom is the one that gives 5% and I wonder if that had any impact on your ranking. So like I'm okay with the the sites that were just building their brand around one channel going away. I think the companies that are actual brands that are doing um PR and they're like investing in video and paid social and paid search. Like there's a whole thing around here where if one channel gets hit, like it's something you need to deal with, but you're not out of business. Um those are the more compelling companies. Those are the ones that like people actually want to be associated with. And remember, it's the the products that they buy. It's the clothes they wear. the the gadgets that they that they buy. Like um so SEO is just becoming more a part of that brand ecosystem where like yeah, if you're going to do link building like think about how you're just trying to get mentions sometimes and not just optimize for the page algorithm so you can rank number one. Yeah, for sure. And I I think that was always good advice honestly because then you weren't as reliant on Google. That was always the dream like you know even when I started back linko one of my goals was I don't want to be as reliant on Google because I was with all my previous sites before that my affiliate sites and whatnot and I was stressed about it because I knew that I didn't have a real business. I had this website that could be eliminated within a day. But the funny thing is because Google just sends so much traffic it's actually physically hard to like get other pieces of the pie to make any dent whatsoever. Even if you're crushing it on those platforms, like you know what I mean? Even when I had like 500, you know, getting I was getting hundreds of thousands of views on YouTube a month, it still was like 3% of the traffic that Google was sending. So, it's really hard to like break into that. But I think even if you just want to rank in Google and that's still your goal or or in LLMs or whatever, that I always thought that was more helpful and that motivated me to do it because I wasn't I was just, you know, an SEO nerd. So, for me, I just wanted to rank number one for everything. I didn't really, it wasn't about the other platforms. It was more that oh, if I do that, then Google will see that and reward me. And I do think there's something to that for sure that if you have these other things, you can survive if you get hit from from an update like you said, but also I think you're much less likely to get hit by an update because you have a newsletter, you have a podcast, you have a YouTube channel, you have LinkedIn. Like Google knows that people are actually looking for you. You're getting branded searches in Google. people actually searching for you as opposed to just happen to find you because you did SEO best. Those days are definitely definitely gone. Yeah. And I I don't know, there's plenty of discussion in the industry about like does brand search matter. I I don't know what the exact calculation is in the algorithm, but like I don't see how it can't be a factor at least like just as far as be building a good business. I'm sure for you when you were building the the blog and selling courses, I'm sure a lot of people that ended up deciding to buy a course from you also watched the video. Like maybe they found the blog post first and before they decided to to pull out their credit card, they consumed other content. So even if it wasn't like the first touch, it was a contributing factor a lot of times I I would imagine for their final decision. So I think people just like brands and Google likes brands and it's LM like brands I think too because they they have the same like I said they're in the same position as Google you have a li they don't have uh 10 blue link SERs but they they site a limited number of sources and they're going to have to decide if 150 are saying the same exact thing which five do we show and that's going to be based on brand trust authority links all that stuff. Yeah. And I I think um I don't want to go too far into it, but I think it'll be a video coming soon and for people that want to go look into it, like really starting to understand how um the concept is vector embeddings, how Google and these LMS are organizing all of the entities, all of the things, all of the businesses and products and and ideas on the web into these clusters and the things that are closely related to each other, brands can get attached into it. So, um, it just, yeah, it it needs to be part of the the mix and the plan. It can't just be as limited as before, but that that gets more into the weeds on the technical side of things that not everybody is comfortable with. I want to wrap it up a little bit. Um, just by I think you were a lot of the content you created was like for beginners. Um, I think a lot of people right now if they're they're trying to build their their business, they're they're thinking about getting into marketing or SEO specifically. like do you have any advice right now for somebody who is is new either new in their career or just new to marketing and like trying to figure out how to get started how to approach things in the AI era? Yeah, the number one thing is I would create a personal brand on a a platform that you already are on so you understand all the nuances or one that you want to learn about and get on and that's your motivation to try it because by doing that you're going to first of all just learn how these things work and every all these platforms already do have AI incorporated into them and it's only going to increase in the future like we think of AI as like we go to chatbt and we talk to it and it gives us an answer and that is AI but it's also being used in everywhere else. So the more you interact with it and learn how it works the better and the only way to do that is doing. So if you have a personal brand, it's a massive advantage because most people don't. And if you want to be a marketer, you can literally get a job almost anywhere by saying, "So I got my first job. I I had a personal website and it it separated me from the the group." And it's it's amazing how few people will do that extra step and how much it makes I think people might underestimate how much it helps you stand out. Like it's huge how much helps you stand out. Like I saw a stat a while ago that of all the LinkedIn profiles only like 3% have posted anything. Um so most are just a static resume page which is fine for if you're a banker or something that's fine. Maybe it doesn't matter but if you're in marketing you got to show you know how to market stuff. And if you can't market yourself how are you going to market a product? So I would say the number one thing would be create a personal brand. Like you said it can be just a website. It can be just a Tik Tok uh page. It can be just a YouTube channel. It can be just It doesn't have to be like this huge multimedia GaryVee empire. It can literally just be one platform that you're good at and you know and you do well on and you're going to set yourself years ahead. Not just practically because it helps you stand out, but you're also going to know more because you're actually doing it every day. Yeah. I I also think um one I was watching a podcast uh or listening to a podcast the um the other day and the conversation was on like human to human marketing and I think even though we're in the a like a kind of rapidly evolving AI era like people are seeking out personal brands they want to hear from other people that are actually doing things. It's not I think the whole concept of like B2B has always been kind of weird because businesses don't buy from businesses. people that work at businesses buy from other people that work at businesses. And the the more you can connect with people, the better. If it's for yourself, for your own personal brand, uh you're just you're able to be just that much more influential. You did it with um Back and Co and the blog and then eventually your YouTube videos and all the other interviews and podcasts and things that you did along the way. Like I absolutely agree. It's it's super valuable. What What do you think? So, building a personal brand. And then the last question, like what what should we how do we avoid relying on these tools too much? Like where especially if you're earlier in your career, like I'm worried about people seeing AI as like the shortcut to everything and not a way to layer on top of other experience or like real ideas and critical thinking. I think the way it's a good question. The way I look at it as is AI knows a lot, but it hasn't experienced anything. You're never going to know as much as AI, but you can experience a lot more. So that's your advantage. You can actually do stuff in the world and write about it, make videos about it, do podcasts about it, and that is your advantage over AI. So AI is an accelerator, but it it's never done anything. It's never eaten pasta. It's never gone to China, right? It's never stubbed its toe. It'll have approximation of what these things are, but it doesn't actually do it. So that's why when you ask it stuff, a lot of times the answers are incredibly boring because it doesn't really know what this is like. So your advantage is to go out there and do stuff. And if you're in marketing, do marketing like create videos or even if you're if you're a big ads person, you know, create Facebook ads for a client for like almost no money to get the hang of it and then the next one charge more and stuff like that. the more actual hands-on experience you have, the the better because you're never going to know as much in your head as AI. Not even close. So, you're but you're you can always say, "I did this thing." And that's where AI can LLM will always kind of struggle a lot of times with these like unique use cases or a lot of times when you ask it something that you already know about. A lot of times the answers aren't as great, right? When you ask it something you know nothing about, you're blown away like, "Wow, this is so knowledgeable." But if you start asking stuff things, you know, a lot of times you're like, man, this is not not really true. It's not wrong, but it's not entirely accurate. And I think that's always going to be a little bit there on the edge. And that's where, you know, your experience um and can be a massive advantage. Cool. I love that answer. And I think it's completely right. Um, thank you so much, Brian. This was a fun conversation. Uh, appreciate you coming on and chatting with me. All right. My pleasure, Lee. Talk to you later.