# Britney Muller — The Future of AI in Search | Whiteboard Friday Revisited | Britney Muller

**Channel**: Moz (ft. Britney Muller)

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N2fb2b_hSOU

**Date**: Sep 17, 2025

## Transcript

 "It's that time again. We are delving back into the archives to revisit Whiteboard Fridays and this time I'm chatting with the wonderful Britney Müller. I had an absolute pleasure talking with her. One of the great things about working at Moz is the fantastic people that I get to work with every day and also the fantastic people that I've had the opportunity to work with. And one of those people is absolutely Britney Müller, an exmosa, somebody who is very well regarded in the areas around AI and search marketing. So, this one is definitely one to watch if you're trying to untangle the ideas around opportunity and threats when it comes to AI and search marketing. Uh, her perspectives are really interesting. Uh, we had a fantastic chat and do you know what? I'm not even going to waffle at the beginning of this episode. We're going to get straight into it. So, thank you so much for joining me and I hope you get as much out of this episode as I did. Thank you so much. Welcome to another Whiteboard Friday revisited. Today I'm joined by Britney Müller where we will look back on her Whiteboard Friday from 2020 which was all about making LLM workflows accessible to marketers. This whole format is so that we can look back to make sense of what's happening now in the present and as we love to do, speculate on the future. Britney, thank you so much for joining me. Thanks so much for having me, Joe. I'm so excited to be here. >> It's such a pleasure to chat. You're somebody who many people in industry will know as an SEO and AI expert. Uh you are a writer, someone who is an educator with this aim to make these uh AI tools and LLMs more accessible to marketers. We can use them more effectively. and you're someone who was really ahead of the curve on speaking about the impact of these of machine learning and LLMs on the search industry. Um, that's a kind of broad introduction for for you as a person. What am I missing here, Britney? What do you want people to know about you? >> I love that. I think that was a beautiful intro. I think something that I've really been focused on the last couple years is empowering other people through AI education. There's so much misinformation happening right now in terms of AI and the AI hype that circulates at an incredible speed. And I like to shed light and give context around why these things are occurring and also give marketers peace of mind that they're not going to be replaced by AI tomorrow. That's not how this works and your job and you individually are incredibly valuable in terms of what you bring to the table. >> That is a beautiful mission and ambition. There's something so delightful about creating that reassurance for people because there's a lot of worry and a lot of concern. >> Yeah. And I think it's really misguided unfortunately. I understand why there is so much uncertainty and fear around the space because you know media has bought into the hype just as much as everyone else. And so they're propelling these narratives that aren't based in reality. They're not based in facts or actual technology capabilities at this point. So, shedding light on that and shedding light on why that hype cycle exists and really giving people the reassurance that the expertise that you bring to the table will be more important now and moving into the future than maybe ever before. >> I love that. And and you must be somebody I I would see somebody who has had such a connection to this throughout its entire growth in the industry. Seeing it all happen slowly slowly and then speeding up and all at once. Looking back at your whiteboard Friday from 2020, which was all about creating these really tangible, accessible workflows. And looking back at that, I absolutely love the way you created that content because you were trying to make these tools um putting them into the hands of people so they could automate, be more effective, work more effectively, get better access to data and insights. How did it feel to you at the time when OpenAI launched CHP GPT and made it so available to people? Yeah, you know, it's funny because when they when they released uh I believe it was GPT 1.5 and then GPT2, I had early access because I had, you know, they had been on my radar since Elon founded it. And I was really curious to see what they were going to create and how they were going to do that. And so playing around with the early language models, they weren't all that impressive, right? when they were a bit robotic sounding. Um, GPT2 was on massive amounts of Shakespearean text and so it was actually quite romantic and whimsical and had this like goofy like yeah personality to it sort of. Um, and so that was really entertaining and it was, you know, throughout my journey LLM have always been on my radar. I remember at Moscon, one of the early Moscons actually, I demonstrated how I had built my very own excuse generator and it was trained on the English language and it generated an excuse of why I couldn't be at Moscon or or something. It had John Mueller in it. It was something funny. But, you know, I kind of demonstrated those capabilities really really early on. And then I I showcased how you can use this to automatically write metad descriptions and better title tags. And at the time that was such a foreign concept. I remember people telling me I was insane and actually like very seriously criticizing me for making these sort of leaps when I have been at the hackathons. I've been at these AI conferences. I know the current capabilities exist. Um, and so I got I was just so excited about that. I knew where the puck was going. I to be totally, you know, frank, I didn't know what the puck exactly was going to look like and I didn't expect LLM to be the model that exploded in the way that it has through things like chat GPT. I really thought we were going to see I don't know maybe predictive models or um like data data models in terms of analysis and you know surfacing stat sound statistical insights take you know I I saw those applications early and very clearly but I would have never put my money on like LLMs being the models to take off because there there are all these other incredible capabilities through other types of machine learning. And I think unfortunately right now with the current landscape, it's all whitewashed as AI. And so people don't understand that, you know, over here there's midnight. That's that's an image generator, right? That's a text to image model. Granted, it's generative AI, but that's not the same thing that the post office uses to automatically read text on envelopes to organize where to send them, right? that's image recognition or computer vision. And so these different areas of machine learning have yet to really be explored. And I'm just so excited to put that on marketer radar of there's a whole other universe of capabilities and of models outside of these LLMs. Like yes, this is great, but oftentimes it's not really the solution you want for what it is you're trying to accomplish. And so I guess coming back to your speaking before about these kind of news cycle and how it can perpetuate certain thoughts and how people can see okay what does how does that make me feel like I can be effective and relevant there's also the idea that like certain types of solutions can just eclipse the thinking when really if we as society want to become more efficient for lots of many reasons we want to make more time make more money spend more time with our friends and families away from our computers I mean that's the hope that there are a lot of other things. So is your hope that through through exposure to this on one side it then opens up our thinking towards these other solutions? >> Yes. And I I would also even go as far to say that like knowing more about the hype cycle, why it exists, how the power of this industry lies in the hands of a very very few people. starting to shed context on, you know, why they're they're really flexing these capabilities in terms of growth and, you know, stock prices and they see dollar signs, right? And the hype cycle might be one most brilliant PR strategies we've ever seen because it accomplishes multiple things at once. It gets investor attention which fuels the AI engine anyways, right? We need runway. It also gets major media pickup. Media is eating this up left, right, and center. Uh and then it gets the attention of users, right? And so it's wild how all of this kind of circulates again to support very few people in positions of power that are sort of driving this train forward. and bleeding cash doing so. This is not currently making companies money, right? We have yet to really identify how or what that looks like. AI companies are bleeding cash and constantly trying to one up one another. Um, so it really does feel like a bubble in terms in terms of that hype. Um, but giving people the context of that, showing examples of that, showing examples of how lots of these AI announcements are BS, right? They are complete BS and most of them don't even see the light of day, right? They are simply done to capture attention and buzz and then they repeat it later down the road. It is wild. not only what AI companies are getting away with, but what journalists are getting away with on reporting these things that don't even exist. Sometimes they don't even have people working at these AI companies on the things that they're I mean, it is become an illusion. It's become one of the biggest charades of all time, unfortunately, which is doing such a disservice to the actual technology because the actual tech used in the right ways can be wildly powerful in helping people accomplish clearly defined needs, right? Clearly defined tasks. These are not This is a horse and pony show designed to create awe and you know set the world's fresh water on fire to generate shitty videos of talking owls. Like that doesn't even look like why are we doing the question should be why on everyone's mind it should be why are why should we care about this example these applications what you know data is being collected here and what are the ways in which we can like really strategically think about all the other datadriven models that are left you know left on on the back burner out of everyone's mind because everything's LLMs right now so That's that's something I have a lot of fun like throughout my course is shedding light on. Students will come forward with these different applications they want to solve for and we walk through what that looks like with an LLM and why it's not qualified to do something like that and how there's already these brilliant libraries and other models if necessary. A lot of times you don't even need a model. It's just connecting different automations together to solve for this thing. Um, yeah, I feel like I kind of went whoop, but >> I love the whoop whoop whoop. That's where what we're here for. >> You mentioned the environmental costs and you've also spoken a lot about the way that some of these models can perpetuate societal biases. >> Yeah. And we're talking about, like you said, like who's impacting what, who's affecting what, who's in charge here, who's who's, you know, what. >> But then when it comes down to it, it's all about what can we as marketers do? And not just marketers, but anybody who has access to this these tools, which is everybody. >> What are some actual things that we can do? Is it just um making sure that we're using them effectively in the day-to-day, like the same way that you'd switch your light off at home when you're not using it? Are you saying is there little things that we can do to make sure that we're not having a big environmental impact or is it actually more important that we prioritize wider education about the full scope of what is available like you're talking about? And I know you go into detail in your course, but what is what are some steps in the day-to-day that people can make that will allow them to utilize these tools to um automate, be more effective in their jobs, not be left behind, because to a certain extent, you don't want to be left behind, but also feel like they're alleviating some of these concerns. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's a really good question. So, I'm going to break it out a little bit into two parts. So, one, like not wanting to feel left behind and wanting to use these tools in ways that are appropriate use cases in your day-to-day work can be very valuable. I also feel like the FOMO and being left behind is AI propaganda, right? Like there there are a lot of research coming forward about how AI takes up more people's time and it makes mistakes and it makes you a worse writer and all of these things. And so to use it carefully, right, and in the ways in which it's actually providing provable value and provable results and impact. Um, and a lot of that comes with experimentation. I really push students, you know, if you think these are such great, you know, social media um, draft creators, test that, right? Like let's let's explore this. And an interesting thing starts to emerge when you start applying language models specifically to marketing tasks. And it's this notion that having someone in the loop, having a human in the loop to clean things up, to refine it, to add another layer of expertise and personality makes all the difference in the world, right? the the growing mountain of AI slop is not what you want to be a part of, right? You really want to set yourself apart from all of the lazy marketers, all the lazy SEOs that are just churning out AI generated crap and making it better, right? Providing that that lens of experience and realworld information that AI can never touch, right? Those are real quotes. Those are real stories and opinions grounded in um real life experiences. Those are like funny personality or anecdotes. So, making sure that you know you're crafting it in a way that that makes sense. But I would also push back that it's the limiting factor I think in using a lot of this stuff is clarity of thought. A lot of people go to these tools with a really vague prompt of do XYZ for me like you're because you're magical. Everyone has sold this as a magic engine. So people don't think they have to do any lifting at all. And that's that's quite false, right? So the more clear you can the more clearly you can explain what it is you're trying to accomplish, show examples of previous work like that that has done well, the way way better off you're going to be in terms of the output or different automations that you can set up to kind of get yourself ahead of the curve. Um, and then when it comes to environmental impact, this is such a huge thing that unfortunately this is like how the hot dog is made, right? And these these topics, the environmental topic, the bias, all of these things are topics that the AI companies brush under the rug. They are not vocal about it. They don't want to talk about it because it's bad PR. They don't even want to remind people that they ex that these things exist. And in doing so, there's a complete lack of transparency around what this is costing environmental wise, what this is costing in terms of carbon footprint. And so I'm very mindful of the fact that users and marketers and SEOs like us, like we don't have that visibility into what sort of carbon footprint we're creating through our use. I strongly advise anyone and everyone listening to this to push back on those AI companies. They need to be held accountable for how they're thinking about, you know, these things. And they use this really manipulative PR tactic that I want to come up with a name for, but it essentially the tactic is inevitability. They position this technology as if it's some biological evolution, which it's not. It is not, right? Like there are people in positions of power saying we're going to do this and move this forward. This is not evolution. This is not some like science to whatever um to truth or whatever that PR statement was recently. This is people making business decisions and we have every opportunity especially right now before these things get so ingrained in our platforms and in our software to push back against that and to ask more of these questions. And that's something I've been so impressed with like students and people I talk to is the thoughtfulness of their questions around this stuff and wanting to know more about like yeah what is in this data? Why would we see something like this? You know, how how are they running their training? What is the environmental impact? How are they offsetting this? Are they, you know, training in places that have renewable um energy or, you know, are fueled by um there's some cool data centers in different parts of the world like Iceland that uses thermodynamics, right? So like heat from the earth and how are they how are they or cooling from the earth? How are they thinking about >> that stuff and why why aren't they talking about that's something we really need to push back on too and something that has quite frankly been kind of scary recently is I've um pushed back on different large companies and comm's teams about this and the fact that they're not responding or addressing it doesn't feel good right it makes it feel even like we're on to something right like this is very clearly something that they don't want to address or solve for or think about right now because their their vision is over here on growing stock prices and competing in the AI landscape and not being left behind and this is how you know they're going to try to do that. Everything is so experimental as well that um yeah it's just what a wild west moment Joe >> FOMO is so is such a powerful emotion. It's such a charged emotion. >> It's something that I think especially >> when you know there are a lot of impacts and I think people should be aware of the impacts and I think it's um uh you know it's something that should be in people's minds and we should be we should be asking these questions and seeking to get answers so we can make better decisions. But you know the impact happens in so many different ways. The one of the big ways that is impacting search in particular is it's affecting thisformational organic traffic and that that traffic, you know, for a lot of people that's their business. That's what their business is structured on. So, it does impact people's day-to-day lives and how their businesses are run and and so the search industry in particular has kind of had this one two punch. So, it's got this kind of like a lot of industries are impacted because the way it's changing the way we're expected to work or the content we're meant to be delivering a deliverables shift or you're meant to be having a more significant output and the search industry is kind of got these two layers to it in that it's changing the way we work and it's also changing the way we uh the impact that we have and the KPIs we speak to and how we can speak to the value of the work that we're doing. Um, >> yeah. >> What insight do you have in terms of what people can do to navigate that conversation? Like, are we meant to be shifting to speaking about visibility and LLMs? What does that look like for people? Where can we kind of look to as part of this conversation? Because I don't think it's just a conversation about, oh, it's it's a it's a change in the way that that we can kind of generate leads, we can get in front of people. it is impacting the way pe businesses are run and the way the internet operates as well. >> Yeah. No, those are all really really good points and something yeah that's on everyone's mind right right now. These are headwinds never experienced before and I really empathize with SEOs and marketers in the position of our traffic is down right we've always measured by traffic our traffic is down and why you know why is this and they're they're getting you know their feet held to the fire of it and I think there is a huge area of difficult opportunity of having those tough conversations where you have to help bring your stakeholders along this journey to understand that this is a huge reflection of massive SER changes, some of the largest changes we've ever seen before and it is not a reflection of poor SEO performance or marketing performance. This is purely Edwin that we're being proactive about. it's on our radar, things are not going to necessarily go back to look the way that it was. Having these really tough expectations, setting conversations because I think where SEOs, marketers get into trouble is trying to solve for all this, right? And not trying to talk about, yeah, maybe there's other metrics we we should consider, right? Maybe we focus more on on conversion rate. These are all really tough conversations, especially when you've been doing this for so long and this is how everyone expects it to go. Um, everyone's confused. Everyone needs to be kind of carried along this journey a little bit and informed about why and how this is occurring. And it's also important to note that this is still highly experimental by Google, right? um which doesn't necessarily feel any better, but it's it's been their attempt to sort of make their position stronger in this AI race, this AI arms race. And so, you know, something that um Danny Sullivan shared at the private meeting at IO, there was maybe 16 of us, was, you know, someone had asked, how are we supposed to think about this? you know, how are we supposed to how are our content teams supposed to now think about creating content that, you know, you're essentially stealing from us and and providing in a different new way where they don't have to click to our site. And Danny had said, well, obviously, you know, I wouldn't recommend you go and create, you know, how many ounces are in a gallon type content, right? These things are solved for. we have all those answers to those types of questions. What you can start to create is what what are the unique informational expertise aspects of your company or your audience that you can really start to bring to the table in a way that provides value on on your site on your page, right? Um it's still frustrating, right? It feels like it it's literally cannibalizing the content ecosystem that it feeds upon. And if it continues at this pace, I mean, it doesn't make sense. It can't a lot of these websites or even media outlets can't afford to continue and that fuel starts to burn out a bit and so Google has a lot of figuring out to do, right? they they are highly dependent on us, on content teams, on journalists to be providing this level of information. And so I think we really just have to kind of um hang in there, you know, navigate this as best as we can, start to experiment a little bit with different types of content. maybe double down on the type of content that is still getting you traffic, is still getting you conversions. How can you expand upon that type of content or refurbish it for other platforms? And it's sort of like um Eric Ward used to always say this, you know, you should be operating and doing use a link builder, you know, link building as if Google dies tomorrow, right? Like people should still be able to find you in the relevant places online. And that's never been more true, you know, and so where are those forums? Where are those communities where your audience are having these conversations? How can you be more present there? How can you bring more value? Um, oftentimes, you know, it's it's easy to forget like it's not all about you, right? Like what are the ways in you in which you can give back? what are the ways in which you can add value and empower your audience, your stakeholders. Um, and so there's lots of lots of things to play with and to and to experiment with that. That is that is really uh interesting to hear about that insight from from Google IO as well because uh I saw you were out there and it was it's so fascinating to be able to ask those questions and and I do really I do feel like this is like you said a really important inflection point because it doesn't feel sustainable in terms of what the expectations are around content creators to continue to create and not to reap any of the rewards of that. it simply isn't because that's not a business model that can be successful. Um, when I chatted in the similar format, whiteboard Friday revisited with Cyrus, we talked a lot about this too about content and you know, where do you shift your focus? are you creating it for? Um the you know what kind of visibility you expecting because they are you know long form content is still a target for links and like you said the link landscape still creates visibility in various different ways and maybe ways we haven't anticipated yet. Um >> so yeah are there any ways you're seeing people adjust their content strategy or is there anything that you're doing differently? You know, it's funny. I think I'm being a little bit more mindful of what I spend time consuming. And I just finished, you know, it's probably over an hour long article of reading Ed Zetatron's uh the like the AI hater guide or something. It is so it does the two things we all dream of accomplishing in content marketing. It is both highly informative and entertaining >> and it has this unique voice throughout and humor throughout that is so uniquely human and is so uniquely Ed. And so I think you know what are the ways in which we can bring that human level back to our work. And and I even like I make these wild um hypotheses in my course about like I feel like um snail mail stuff might come back like more you know what are the ways in which we can create community or connect more richly to one another and to our customers in ways that don't feel inauthentic and cold. and you know where are the where are the big gorilla marketing tactics that used to occur that would gather thousands of people and do really cool things. Um I foresee that kind of stuff having a comeback especially in this age of AI slop and AI generated content. I also feel like authentic images and content will be on the rise. People don't want to look at AI video. They don't want to look at AI images. um it's going to lose its luster, right? And so I think again going back to why creatives um and marketers and SEOs that are really good at their craft are going to be so valuable moving forward, writers are going to be so valuable moving forward because if you can bring that authentic writing voice to the table, I mean that that's what we all want to consume, right? And so doing that in the ways that like Ed as an example is both informative but also entertaining helps reinforce your brand. It helps bring visibility to your content and bring people to your site. Um and it also sets you apart. I think oftentimes in SEO we often talk about being the best or >> you know world class at this or this. And what I've experienced the last, you know, half a dozen years is those companies stand out that are different, >> right? There's a bunch of companies that do the same thing. But if you can stand out differently, do something different, um, experiment a little bit, have fun with it, right? Those start to get more attention. And I think there's really incredible ways in which AI can help you do that. You know, I have a this incredible guest lecture in my course, Federico Pascal co or he did co-found monkeyle learn where that's where we originally connected back in 2016 when I was using it to do some of this uh machine learning stuff within Google Sheets at MOS and at Monkeylearn they did lots of natural language processing and they had this whole article that went completely completely viral around using natural language processing to to consume and evaluate and do this analysis on 1 million hotel reviews. >> And the insights are so spot-on and hilarious. And it's how like the biggest disappointment at Paris hotels are croissants and breakfast options. Like people go to Paris expecting really good baked goods and so they're really let down if they don't get that at the hotel. Um, Bangkok had a huge spike in cockroach complaints than any other uh location that they had researched. Uh, London had a funny thing about the food and then it was, you know, where all the positives are, too. But how incredibly insightful, right? If you're able to surface these types of insights by feeding massive amounts of real world text, real world data, and have an AI, an LLM, you know, analyze and sort through some of that. And I I want to be careful because LLMs don't naturally do that. They're not um natural language processing machines. They're simply language models that are predicting the next output. and say they will they will predictably uh analyze something but there's all this other incredible NLP technology that can do that um similarly to these hotel review analysis and so what are the ways in which you know you can get more creative in your content and SEO um roadmap right what sort of data do you have on either your customers or audience or industry that you can service and really interesting ways. And I think that's where we start to have fun again and that's where things can naturally start to to take off more than some of the just AI >> stuff. >> Yeah. >> I like I like the idea of one of the ways you kind of sense check something is is the idea of like is this any fun? >> Because if you're not having any fun then why is the person consuming it going to be having any fun? What purpose does it serve? And it's a nice way to, like you said, bring it back to some kind of human emotion. It's a decision that >> you think, well, >> if I have fun doing this, if there's something in this and also >> similarly to making sure you put your money where your mouth is, or you put, you know, you make sure you vote with your money, you vote with your time, too. So, >> yes, >> remain skeptical if you're being I mean, I get stuck in the doom scroll. I get stuck on the reals. you'll see me there and I and time will slip by when I could have spent an hour reading something content that is funded or or is you know my attention will go a long way to funding more things that are worthwhile and are worthy and well researched and have perspective that is going to be >> pivotable in making that next step to showing like this is what people actually want because our time is so precious. Why save time automating if I'm going to burn it all on Instagram? >> Yeah, that's exactly right. That's such a good point and something Yeah, that I think we as a community need to talk a little bit more about and how do we navigate some of that because it's so interesting to look at all of the current kind of SEO AI tools on the market right now. Large majority of them are are leading with this productivity. We're going exactly kind of to your point, we're going to save you all this time. We're going to do these things faster and expedite this process for you. But really what most of them are are like quick cash grabs where they're just wrapping their tool around OpenAI's API and calling it an SEO tool with some instructional prompt about SEO. That's it. But there are different tools on the market that I get so excited about, Joe, because to your point, like time is money. Like time is our greatest resource. And I think about the ways in which when I am tasked with getting really competitive with an SEO keyword or a client or, you know, a company I'm working with, I go all in, right? I print out every single result on page one and usually page two and I will read through all of them multiple times with different colored markers circling like this many talk about price price ranges. These topics are covered here, here, and here. These have videos. Here's the average word count. Here's this. Like I'm just analyzing the hell out of the top ranking URLs because Google is really showing their hand at what people want, right? Google knows what majority of people searching X desire at the end of the day and they're showcasing that not only in what's being surfaced in search results, but how it's being surfaced, right? Are there these thumbnails of something specific or what's the PAAAS? Are there lots of videos? How is the menu changed? Like these are the the nuances that I obsess over to create competitive ranking content that performs over years and years and years. And so that like my experience has been just like having this surgical approach to the SERs. And I did this at Hugging Face. Um Feder Rico and I got to work together at Hugging Face. this AI startup company and I I did this for BERT 101. I knew I like loved this model ever since it came out. I wanted to create this guide, but I wanted to do it in a way that I knew would rank well over time and it's still working and it's so fun to see. But I did it through that method. And Feder Rico being, you know, the other person on our marketing team, we worked kind of handinhand on a lot of this stuff. He was doing the exact same thing and had been doing the exact same thing for over a decade as well. And so when we both kind of ended up moving on from hugging face, he created word crafter.ai. And he thought this is exactly the type of a thing, this level of surgical research. This is exactly what LLMs are qualified to do is to consume this context >> and surface a competitive brief without us having to like you know take all of this time, usually multiple days to do this ourselves. And it's just been so fun watching him create this in like the right ways with all of these like thoughtful features and additions to the tool that I'm just I'm so excited to see things like Word Crafter continue to pop up in the right ways where it's really SEO or marketing tools built by SEOs and who have strong context and knowledge of AI. Um, so that's one that like I just get so so excited about. I think as well like some of the ways so thinking as well everything we talked about we're talking about the way we would like we want to save time right so it's like this kind of we want we want to find ways to improve our process and save time >> we don't want to burn the planet we don't want to build the build the world's resources >> we don't want to negatively we don't want to create a future we don't want to exist in we don't want to negatively perpetuate stereotypes that are that are you know not not ones a future that we want to exist within >> and so we kind of have find that way of of of it kind of does come down to this idea of like, okay, what do I do dayto-day that's going to save me significant amount of time? >> Yeah. >> Whilst costing the right amount of resources if I do it effectively. I give it the right context. I become better at prompting. I know exactly what I want to achieve at the end of it. not just you know okay there's some testing period but you have an intention of achieving a clear um process and workflow using the correct you know model or the correct LLMs or the correct way of of of getting to the end result. there is a really clear and effective way of doing these things >> that has the correct tradeoff because everything does have a cost to it and we want to regain time and if you spend a lot of time uh faffing about which I I know I've done it I've been there >> you don't know what you're doing you're kind of maybe you get an idea you're experimenting and that that side of it is good as well that there is a way to find a way through that we do save these days we do save these highlighters and and and and downloading things and reviewing stuff and getting stuck, you move forward quicker and we come to solutions quicker. >> Yeah. >> So there is a there is a way to do it thoughtfully and effectively and still achieve what we we want to achieve and then going one step further and looking at the back end of these systems and what what they are built on and what they're what they're you know resourced with. Um, the other thing, >> and I only know a little bit about this, is running your own there's local AIs where you can kind of run it off of a system at home. You can use solar panels. You can set up a system in which you >> control. >> Have you tried things like that yourself? >> Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I have multiple onrem models that are just on my computer that, you know, I'll be on a flight without Wi-Fi and I can query it. It's slow. It's much slower. Um, and it's not as, you know, maybe as high quality as some of the other models, but it's good, right? It it gets like different questions I have or jobs done. O Lama is a great one that you can actually connect to different internal resources. So, you can create your own mini rag model on your computer. So, I have it connected to certain documents and I can query against that or have it do different things. Um, so that's super interesting. I would really say in terms of thoughtfully, you know, identifying AI use cases and deploying them is to really start small. Really, really start small. Like small small don't I feel like most of us tend to want to bite off more than we can chew and it's demotivating to not see it solve this one thing, right? And so students that have different ideas around oh I want to you know um analyze this this data set or this PDF for XYZ test that right test that with notebook LM test that with cloud test it with chatt is it what you want right the whole idea of using AI in your day-to-day it's a highly highly iterative process and people that don't have grit or don't um do well with failure tend to have a really hard time exploring AI and their capabilities. You have to get really comfortable with failure because failure is quite literally the yellow brick road of using AI. >> No one, even AI engineers that I've worked with at AI companies expect to get the necessarily best or right outcome of an LLM the first time they're prompting it. They just know that, right? It is a process. It is experimental. You have to come at it with that mindset and being able to, you know, adapt to that and and try to have fun with it, too, right? Like there's there's lots of cool small applications that can that can make a huge difference. Um, and nothing feels better than discovering one clear workflow or application that solves something that you need. nothing feels better. >> I work with um a couple non-native English speakers who have spun up these Chrome extensions that have a language model and they use it when email and it simply just checks for grammar and sentence structure. Feel more confident sending out emails with just a quick pass of like, you know, how does this read English-wise? um >> things like that, right? When AI mode came out and I wanted to do that research of um how many results are being provided and at what extent I spun up similarly this Chrome extension that was able to log and keep track of the searches I was doing in AI mode and its only job was just to log that and export it into a CSV. Um, and so something's again like get really really specific and then you can use AI to help you create that solution. So like I used Claude to help me spin up that extension because I didn't exactly know how to do that, right? And I fed it um some of the HTML that I wanted it to um and that that was a really fun and unique application that's been useful for me. There's lots of really cool sales and growth tactics too that you can use through Zapier connections and LinkedIn. You can identify and tap into audiences that are engaging with posts that have your topic or your industry and it can quite literally like log these individuals for you. Um, and then you can do some kind of cool, you know, outreach or be careful with the automation in terms of what you do back in terms of connecting with them. You don't want to just roll out a bot that spams everyone, but it can really help you surface some interesting ways to, you know, identify customers, identify qualified leads that would otherwise take you so much time to do by hand. And these are the the applications that a lot of people don't quite think about, but it's making AI work for you. And I think in SEO and marketing, we commonly think like, oh, creating content, that's quite frankly one of its worst capabilities. It is really like its worst capability. Um, use that sparingly, right? And start to think about and explore the other ways in which you can start to do different things, right? Claude has incredible knowledge of programming and it can help you set up, you know, chron to identify a change in a website and send you an email. Like you can do some really creative things um and just starting small with things like notebook LM, right? And identifying um what are some some applications you can just do right within your very own mini rag type model tool. Um, so I think that's that's all super super exciting. But again, it comes with like you need to identify like clear appropriate applications or or tasks, which is way harder than people think, right? Because in order to do that, you actually have to split you have to think like an engineer. So you start with one task or one problem you want to solve for. You have to break that up into individual chunks of how you would instruct a person to do that or how you yourself would do it. And for a lot of us, that's that doesn't come naturally. Um, but it's incredibly powerful when you're able to do that correctly. >> I've um this is like therapy for me because I've just had a huge um breakthrough right now. when you talked about people who are not good at accepting failure that that's the moments where I get frustrated. >> I'm no I've just realized >> yes >> when I'm like this isn't >> yes >> this isn't right this isn't working it's because it's I'm getting an error or it's failing or it's not working and and it's like I'm not >> I'm not equipped to deal with that. So thank you Britney. I've had a huge breakthrough today you >> very meaningful to me. It's something I talk about in class too is like something that kind of broke my heart to start to pick up on over like cohort through cohort was more of I would see my women students struggle with that whereas a lot of the men in my courses would not care if they got an error and they would just kind of like push on and you know they didn't put too much thought into it. But I like very similarly to you Joe like I have I've been there. I felt that a lot of like, oh [ __ ] I don't know how to do this. I, you know, it's over my head. I don't know this part of Python. What am I doing trying to run this? And you just, you start to overthink it. You get in your own way. >> And that's where I think finding the right group of people to learn with and finding like the right teacher, and that's not necessarily me, right? There's lots of incredible courses out there, but finding the right guide for you and that you can confidently explore this technology in a space like a collab notebook where you're not going to break anything, right? You're really not. And then just getting comfortable with that. We do like different exercises and that's the whole point really is to like >> is to to get more comfortable with that and to also learn from other students who struggle with that as well. like there's something really I don't know it's like sort of healing and it's like um feels anthrop like you're learning about how humans like deal with some of these set you know setbacks and what are the ways in which they navigate them and everyone's so different in how they how they approach it or solve or this and that and >> I learned so much from all those sessions so stuff like that's really helpful too >> also hearing all those things that you're just talking about now it still feels to me just to bring it all the way full circle back that a lot of what you shared in that whiteboard Friday in 2020 is still hugely relevant going into collab notebooks trying out these processes. >> Yes. >> Yes. I was trying I've been trying to get people in there for so long and it's funny to hear like >> um I've had a couple um people watch that and then it inspired them to get into collab and they just like take off, right? If you have that kind of resilient mindset, you go into it just experimental, you know, have fun with it, you will be blown away by the things that you can create, especially now with like the LLM to be your guides and your assistants. You kind you have no excuse, right? You can literally go to Claude and say, \"Hey, I'm in a collab notebook. Here's what I what I want to accomplish. Help me do that. What are the libraries I need to use to do that?\" Um, and it's incredibly powerful. Incredibly powerful. >> And it doesn't I'm also going to say it it doesn't take as much um like foundational or background programming knowledge as you think. >> A lot of it is more intuitive and straightforward than you would imagine. It just looks scary at first. And once you get comfortable with just little parts of that and and running different things, the world is your oyster. It's so much fun. >> Yeah. >> So don't don't be put off by your own fear of failure. Don't be put off by the fact this whiteboard Friday is 5 years old. Still hugely relevant, still very helpful. >> And >> and try try it out because yeah, you you got to come back to the basics. And also think about your life. Think about what your tasks are in a meta sense. This is what I'm getting used to doing, which I'm also not very good at doing is instead of just like doing the work you're like, \"Oh, step one, I did this.\" Maybe document it. Oh, step two, I did this. And think about every the metad description of every task that you're doing, >> which as SEOs, we should be very good at doing by now. >> Exactly. Exactly. What's taking up most of your time? Also, what don't you like doing? What kind of like is painful for you to do? Um, yes. I love that, Joe. Start keeping track of those tasks. >> Keep track. Um, Britney, uh, it's been such a pleasure. I want to give you a chance to let people know where to find you, what you're working on, you're excited about at the moment, where where on I mean, I don't even know where to find people online anymore. So, what is the best place for people to find you, learn more from you, um, and experience the the methodology of AI life that Britney Müller brings to the table? >> I love it. Thanks, Joe. Yeah, people can primarily find me on LinkedIn is probably where I'm most active these days, and it's just Britney Mueller, um, spelled like Britney Spears. People tend to spell my first name wrong a lot. I don't know if that's helpful. People know that, but um yeah, and I, you know, I'm very determined and kind of set on this journey of again empowering others through AI education and continuing to do that in new and different ways. Um, so I have the actionable AI course for marketers, but there's lots of exciting other stuff in the works that people can stay tuned for. I cannot wait to see what you do next. Thank you so much for your time. Absolute pleasure chatting with you as always. It's been a delight. Thanks, Britney. >> Thanks, Joe. This is fun. Appreciate you. >> See you later."