# Koray Tuğberk Gübür — How to get topical authority in 2026 with Koray Tuğberk and Jesper Nissen - [SEO in 2026]

**Channel**: Jesper Nissen SEO (ft. Koray Tuğberk)

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SLSHSuJ8pQk

**Date**: January 25, 2026

## Transcript
{
  "lang": "en",
  "availableLangs": [
    "en"
  ],
  "content": "I think we're recording now. Yes. Uh okay. So, hello Corey. Uh it's so nice to meet you and uh yeah, I've been as I said before we started recording. I've been following following you for some years now and it's a super big pleasure that you agreed to meet me here and uh yeah it's just you're one of the few people that I really find inspiration in watching your post and your videos. >> Thank you. Yeah. So it's a it's a I I really enjoy following you and uh so so I wanted to talk to you today about about topical authority about SEO of course and on pageio specifically but specifically topical authority because when you're talking about when talking about SEO you are most of us that are doing SEO and have have been doing SEO for some years we are into two camps either we are on page SEO guys. So we are off page SEO guys. That's the kind of like division of you know SEO experts and and I know that you have you started your your career in I gaming so you also know about link building but you you kind of like devised the idea of topical authority. So uh before we before we start talking about that could you for those that don't know who you are because some might know not know you what's your background and uh yeah what's your background? explain of course first of all thanks for inviting me it means a lot and I'm also following your shares especially in the parasite SEO and I really love that and when it comes to my background I started from the I gaming industry and I was actually a PBM manager and we we were having of course millions of uh let's say the overall kinds of network there uh because we were using lots of different tools some of them uh are still famous in a way like the money robots or senuk etc uh but the main size were around 3,000 and at the first day of the August 2018 during the medical update we lost all the websites and then we are we tried to actually correct the algorithm again and it didn't work as it should be then I started to actually read the read basically the patterns especially from Belowski and Sean Anderson as well and whenever I read the patterns I realized one main thing there they were trying to find better ways of interpreting the links especially meanings of the links and whenever I check their latest patterns it wasn't about the links that much. was mainly about semantics and when I see that actually all these engineers they keep actually filing new patents by paying millions of dollars and all these new investments are also happening around let's say natural language processing understanding and generation then you also start to actually focus on where Google actually is focusing on that's why by starting around 2019 uh I started to switch a bit to the whitehead industries and compared to the blackhead version it was way easier to rank anything and then I started to publish some case studies and I was sharing them actually for uh for for making things easier for me because when you put actual data website name and the results it was way much easier to explain to people that actually if you do this in this way in this order you will get some reaction from search engine. Then eventually so many case studies actually piled up. It started to create some attraction and one day I just published another one. I I ranked four different websites without using any footer either uh on the pages. I explained the reason and then also uh it was normal for me but people realize that we rank these websites without using links and it was it create a kind of actual discussion between Hold on could I just before you I'll allow you to continue. Did you say that you didn't have a footer, you didn't have a header, you only have the content in the body? >> Yeah, we only had the main content in the header. We just had actually logo. That's it. But I didn't put any link into the heer or into the footer because I wanted to give all the internal link weight to the main content. And I used only three anchor text per web page, which means three internal links we only used. And I didn't repeat an anchor text more than actually three times. So we always used actually in a way unique anchor text and all the links they they were always actually placed inside uh the main content. When I place all the links into the main content and when I actually keep the number of the links fewer or the less it was increasing the prominence of my main content and also the importance of uh these anchors as well. And after I published that case so that people started to discuss some of them sorry for interrupting you why three links where did you get three from why not two or four or five >> for that project actually was about mainly uh English learning and on that topical map that I created especially during that phase it three was good enough for my system because in my topical map structure I usually have a content that a content piece that I call actually root then a seed than a note. Every page was supposed to link at least one time to the root, one time to the seat and one time to the note. It was good enough anatomy in that structure. >> And can can I continue to the next part? >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> After I publish it, basically there was some discussions in the industry. Then dear friend Matt Diddy, he just reach out and first actually before the interview, he wanted to see it. He wanted to see the source console. He wanted to see the files and he wanted me to explain it and I explained it and then I also trained his team a little bit actually to replicate these processes and actually they also got some results they saw it is working then they wanted to do the interview after we doing the interview I wasn't expecting such a big explosive reaction positive especially in the industry uh but after I believe after that interview and I guess even now it has around 150,000 views on YouTube it changed uh the industry and together with that I also needed to change as well and then the course has been demanded we need to created a course a community has been shaped and an agency also has grown from there and right now we are also trying to basically uh let's say manage this grown agency while also helping to the community I can say >> yeah because I I can see that you run this agency around the holistic SEO and uh so you're You're an you're the boss now of a lot of employees. Yeah. How many people how many people do you have employed now? >> Around 40. It always changes and it's a kinds of also interesting too because when you create the agency and become a boss you also realize that it's not all about algorithms anymore. You have to understand the human and you realize that actually you're in the human business not >> just in the algorithms or it's not like the fun game as in in the old times in in the old times you were ranking a site and you were you you'll be have feeling happy >> now you are just solving a problem to be able to solve the next problems all the time so >> it is working fine uh but I I in the in this phase I even don't remember the majority of the names in the agency I can say I just actually know the main team leaders And basically I contact them and they handle the rest. Uh I learned a little bit from Matt Singers and James Tully for agency management and it is actually helping me. Uh but overall that's the case. >> Awesome. Yeah. So it's a I think uh this is extremely interesting because from what I can see I also asked Chap GBT about who you are and uh you know background and uh you know just to see uh what what does it know about you and it knows a lot actually about I gaming and PBNs and link building holistic SEO and uh and I can see also both from chat activity and your post and uh what people are writing about you and your course that uh that you read a lot of patents, Google patents and you also mentioned that. So I find this very interesting because you you came from the eye gaming industries and because you came from I gaming naturally links was what you were interested in but you noticed and that's what you said you seem to notice that >> all of the new patterns that were coming out didn't mention links they mentioned on page SEO but they mentioned you know uh language understanding and all of this. >> That's correct. Yes. So that's where your interest or or that's where something in you know something triggered in your brain that okay I have to focus on on this part not the links the other part >> that is true because when I read the patterns uh of course there were sections with the links as well but usually it was about understanding the links and the again the semantics in the links too. It wasn't like actually how we can actually rank the sources based on their page rank or the link popularity. It was things like it it was things like actually how we can understand the source page and the target page in the context of this anchor for instance. It was about usually understanding the connection between the words or between the web pages and from there you actually understand that this thing in in this context semon text actually works for again uh the content that we create and also the the links that we create as well. Especially a concept actually because in I gaming industry we were using traffic manipulation a lot especially manipulating the queries as well like we were searching our brand name then we were searching the next query so actually Google can create a connection from previous query to the next one and we were able to trigger search features like did you mean this let's say they search for a person's name and Google asks like did you mean this and we were even able to actually do very funny uh games with the Google too because let's say you want to make a joke one of your friends and they search his name and you actually tell something like this did you mean Megan Fox you are able you were able to basically connect people even to each other by playing with Google's the statistics but after the medical update it stopped working and uh the main thing that is I was able to understand why it stopped working and it happened thanks to the patterns because there was a concept in the patterns that they call rank merge they say basically this simple thing >> rank rank merge rank merge. >> Yes, it was >> the thing that they mentioned there is very simple. They say that some websites they have too much links for instance academic sites but nobody visits them and some other sites for instance porn sites everybody visits them but nobody links. So they decided actually something a kind of simple balance there because they realized that if they rank websites based on popularity then they can't rank the academic sites nowhere. If they rank based on the links then they can't rank actually the popular sites because some popular sites they don't get any links. That's why they try to merge popularity and the links together and through the Google's actually latest API leak we also have seen they have even something else that they call now boost which even merges topicality links popularity and also historical data that has some navigational paths as well now boost also became a kinds of let's say an added layer to that when I see this concept in the patterns and I realize that if I will be reading this earlier than medic update. I will be ready for the next let's say possible update. Then actually it created a kind of conscience for me that if I keep reading I will always be ready for the next update or the next phase of Google basically. >> So that's very interesting. So that's why they so that's why they use Chrome traffic so much. That's because uh because I have been actually been wondering why is this so important. I know it's important but why is it so important? That's because they want to do this rank merge >> balance between the balance between popularity and link building >> 100%. And then also they brought the topicality uh which actually >> and that's that also explains why CTR works so well. >> That is true. Uh and also they even classify the clicks. We all know actually these bad clicks, good clicks, etc. But for instance, one of them was interesting to me from the API league. They call it unicorn clicks because when you read the patents and also the API leak, you're able to bind them to each other. Usually what they call there is a unicorn click is actually coming from the users which who have a long history for that topic. Which means that if you are always searching for SEO in your browser and if you make a click for an SEO site or SEO topic, your clicks affect more than others and they call it basically unicorn click for instance. In a similar way, the there are some patterns also for clustering users and only only counting some users historical data for ranking the sources as well which also explains why our actually CTR manipulation on around medical update uh stopped working too because during that time actually we were uh we were doing CTR manipulation from not that much aged accounts that doesn't have any cookie that doesn't have any let's say a proper history as Well, there were just actually some HTMLs that nobody logged in maybe 12 years. >> Before the medical update, it was also working fine, but after the medical update, it didn't. In a few cases, just an extra information that I didn't say anywhere else. During the court updates, sometimes we are able to affect the results uh with these things. But again, they are not sticking that much. Even if they affect, you are able to come to the like second page. But again, it goes back. they they have a kinds of let's say a a kinds of I know that Chrome has a fake traffic team that they are trying to actually locate the fake traffic or fake users but I always quote that actually this is for ads mainly to provide the click but I believe they are using this also mainly for their own quality understanding too that's why when I created a topical authority concept and the method >> in the first formula I site that topical coverage multiplied with historical data Historical data actually means clicks of users through the time. If you rank for a longer duration of time for a topic by covering more of it, you basically become more rankable and sticky in the SER. That's why sometimes in the SEO, I'm sure that every SEO agency owner has this moment. You for instance say that we should be doing this this this and they say that but our competitor doesn't do these things but they still rank. And then I also say something like this. My uncle also smokes for the 40 years. He doesn't have the lung cancer. Shall I also drink for 40 years just because he does the same thing. So everybody smokes. Some of them becomes cancer. Some of them don't. But it doesn't mean that smoking is actually not harmful for your lungs. In a similar way for actually your website comparisons too that website is ranking there over three years and they have actually historical data of three years. every query log session, every Chrome traffic data shows that they are able to satisfy the query and the needs behind the query and you tell Google that please replace me with that site and you have zero historical data >> which means you have to do extra things that they are not doing so that actually you can convince Google to perform a quality test that actually they replace them with you and they get the click data and they do a comparison and that's why in the next course actually I I want to focus on visual semantics more uh because rather than what we write into the page by optimizing the text, how you place information cards or how you place the blocks also affects their judgment in a good way because right now with AI we are able to create uh text in an easy way but designing something in a unique way actually does a kinds of separation between real businesses with human effort or with just let's uh websites that pretend like a business since the helpful content update I believe they are trying to do this separation just the websites or just the businesses and they want to rank the businesses or the companies that has a function and I believe helpful there actually means a function they want to rank mainly websites that sells something as a consultation as a product or as a service >> rather than just actually providing affiliate links I can say >> yeah so that's why we're seeing that the traffic toformational websites let's say uh travel blogs, food blogs, whatever it's it's going down down down >> that is true because uh in I believe in non-English markets it might be still uh for instance in France or French language in Hungarian language uh there are still actually very good uh let's sayformational sites that they are doing fine and they are not affected negatively from some of these updates at all but it is because their index is smaller. There is not that much forum websites to replace them and there is not that much alo commercial sites to replace them either. But if that index in that country also will be having these commercial sites and forum alternates they will be also going down as well. That's why in the visual semantics we mainly try to explain that before Google judges your content they try to classify your site. Is this a business? Is this just informationful site basically and with automation how hard is it to replicate this site because you can't replicate a hair transplant clinic with AI? It's a real business with a real location and with real food traffic but you can always replicate just an information site probably in I don't know 12 hours or something. they try to and this is also the content effort is an attribute that they use in the uh Google's API leak. If they go to the uh API leaks search folder in the hack that docs they will >> what's the what's the attribute called because I'm taking >> the same content effort in a without space content effort >> content effort yeah yeah yeah >> the e is capital and they basically try to understand how much effort is included in that page or in that site then we also see that content effort is actually named as human effort in the Google's quality rated guideline there also they have a section that they say and I disagree with their opinion but they create they they are the ones who create the algorithm not me so there they directly say that uh total human effort is a contributor to the quality signal which means that even if a human makes the content worst they are okay with that they literally want people to be actually actively engaging either in the designing or either in the writing or either in the building the back backing or backend system as well. >> How can they how can they know that >> for design? I believe they can uh because they have some uh I cannot even give the name for instance public I guess it was pop layet which means public layout uh public layout network it's a kinds of database and they basically have all the snapshots of maybe millions of sites there and they use machine learning to classify similar designs to each other and if they actually see that for instance and if I open a parenthesis for instance after the AI search on the web. Some people even claimed that if you use WordPress you will be hit. It wasn't actually about the WordPress. Some people claimed that some of them others they also say that if you use not the WordPress if you use generate press you will be hit. They said because most of the AI generated sites since 2021 they were using generate press with generate press team with the WordPress and they just got this feeling and the reflex like they claimed that actually if you are using this CMS with this WordPress theme Google doesn't like it. It wasn't entirely like that actually. It's true that some really important sites are hit by the way because we have some samples their content is from 2019 and around 2023 Google claimed that their content is written with AI. They gave manual penalty for the content scale abuse they say but it's not possible. It's human written just four years ago. We even didn't change the page. we have sent way back machine snapshots but they still don't accept that uh the main main thing there is actually if they see that actually the content is heavily coming with machine generated design doesn't have anything unique and the CMS is very easy to replicate as well nothing there is let's say unique or customized for that business or for that website they're basically understanding that there is not that much human involvement in the creation of the site it can be happening through your design and we can also easily check let's say a website's uh building blocks as well we can try to see what CMS it use what team it use or what type of let's say blocks visual blocks it is using and from the I believe the text today understanding AI generated content for humans is very uh easy for machines too they can estimate on a certain confidence too if they are able to see a uniqueness in the content they actually like it more basically I believe I I'm not liking the Google spokesperson that much, but there were two instances that actually they were validating this. In one of them, Dennis Sullivan said that originality will be the main factor. They site in 2025 and beyond. And a few years ago also John Miller said that being unique is helping for ranking better. But of course, he didn't explain what he means with the uniqueness exactly in that area. But I believe your design uniqueness is one of the big factors there because when we do some tests same content let's say uh text is exactly same title tech and everything is same images are same but when we change the placement of these textual components we are able to increase rankings there that's why also in my ch my speech I try to explain a concept of centerpiece annotation that Martin shiplit actually in a way explained publicly for the first time. Centerpiece annotation basically is a component or a kinds of web element on the page that shows function and the purpose of the page. And if they are not able to locate the centerpiece annotation on that page based on your visual design, they might even skip ranking or skip evaluating there. or if they find the centerpiece annotation but if it is not performing or exceeding the thresholds that they set again they can skip even evolation of the page too I will >> that's my watch in my yeah >> okay I will finish with one more thing uh the together with the centerpiece annotation if you go to the again Google's API leak just search for the phrase annotation you will see that there are more than actually 20 different annotations there for instance sentence boundary annotation, section annotation or different type of annotations. It means that actually they are trying to understand these visual blocks to be able to give a meaning to the your page. Then there are some other patterns that I can uh give example to if I just name one layout aware multimodel document understanding from Alexander Nayor and Michael Benderski it will be a good document fundamentally to read. So I have I have two follow-up questions about uh what we what you just talked about. So the first question is uh what comes to mind in my mind is that HTML plates with no design seems to many times actually work better than if you have some design. And that's actually uh and what you just mentioned explains why that might be the case. It's not the case because it's code bloated. It's the case because if you don't have any design, that's just my idea. If you don't have any design, the machine learning can't measure it against anything. So, it can't find >> that's also true. Uh it also is a little bit about actually the industry as well. >> It won't convert but it's it's it will rank a little bit higher. It can it can also rank higher because maybe it is very easy to actually process the content there because you are not confusing anything there let's say and the page DOM size is very low and it is overall HTML size also is going to be very easy to parse they have a process that they call HTML normalization and if it is just a plain HTML and especially if it's a programmatic project mainly let's say you have too many pages with very low sizes and it can be working fine uh in that case But it's a little bit about the geography of the language and the industry. In that case I can say for something like uh let's say um the bunion relief for instance as a product or tote bags or glasses having some actually let's say design elements with some component uh structure will be actually helpful but when we say the design it's not about aesthetics actually our design usually is about uh coordinating some certain sections and connecting these sections to each other either through the taps or through accordionss or through different type of filters, hover over effects or different sections. >> So um I have a follow-up question actually to design but let me just ask one thing first. How do you think they actually measure the content effort because if there is such a thing as a content effort tag that means that it they have to they have to qualify it there. They have to quantify it. >> That's true. >> How large is this number? So how how would you how do you think that they actually measure this? >> According to the Google API league uh they say that they are using a large language model. They say this is an LLM based metric. I believe in one more section they were saying that uh this is a kind of engineeric language that they are using. They were saying from 0 to the 127 as bits. they were saying as the spectrum uh basically but it looks like according to the API leak they should be using a large language model to just understand the effort on the page and that's why actually I perform some tests especially for agentic search basically imagine that you are taking a screenshot of uh your source or your page and then you go to a large language model and you can just simply answer it actually how or in what way you can actually evalate the human involvement or the effort for this design and they are really actually with that LLM approach it is really actually judging different type of aspects and according to the basically API leak it says LLM but in my opinion to streamline that and I believe that this is not a specific thing that they check for every site because we know it from pandak uh chief of ranking on Google in the do files or department of justice uh files he directly says and admits that they are not running every algorithm for every site It's impossible. >> Yes, they're running the most important algorithms only for the important pages for important query terms. So if that query requires actually some human involvement then they will be running this algorithm and in that case they can also use this snapshot or let's say your placement in terms of coordination as well because for instance uh Google published a search of the record podcast episode and they say that please keep your CSS files open to be crawled but you are not indexing CSS right you you don't index them and you index just the HTML >> they need to they need to crawl the CSS files to determine if there is a pattern, you know, 27 pixels left, 27 pixels right, and then they need to Yeah. They need to basically see what the actual page is like a user. Yeah. Yeah, >> and this why they want you to actually keep the CSS there and since JavaScript rendering actually takes the time especially because rendering time cost is more important than computation cost there and they are trying to always actually tell people that try to be more or less dependent to the JS to show the content and try to be more let's say self dependent to your own HTML or to your own CSS in that area. So they can there is actually one pattern I believe people can check it because it's called website uh website representation features they say the phrase features there is actually a machine learning concept it's not the features that we understand in language they call basically they they mean that they are vectorizing they are vectorizing all these website designs and then they cluster them and then they choose actually cluster representatives and that pattern is actually about separating an expert doctor from just an apprentice website and they are using different type of judgments basically to perform that and I believe they are also using qualitators too because quiterators in their program from some of the uh even glass door reviews there's the people who work for Google as a coerators they are telling what they did in that section of the glass door and they are saying that there's a window and there's a site that they are opening to you and they ask a question like do you trust this site and the question is that much or do you like this or do you find this useful for instance and you say yes or you say no and then you actually help their algorithm to be shaped but I believe to create a exact algorithm from SEO perspective to to actually mean that this is showing human effort or this is showing the content effort I believe using uh less similar design elements in terms of maybe coloring or in terms of maybe differentiation of some text snippets will be actually helpful. The course mainly will be about this. Actually we have right now two uh replicable uh comp web components for different purposes and in our design system too. Technically we have uh before we design a site we directly actually design first the components then we start to actually use them like a puzzle >> for different sections of the site or for different sections of the web page technically and I can tell that for inance there is a good case for that for instance there was a converter site it was basically converting millimeters to the meters or meters to the something else only change that only main change that we did on the site was taking the converter from the middle of the page to the top of the page. That was that. And then actually from like daily 2,000 clicks through until 30,000 clicks, it was able to increase the rankings. And we also saw that just by changing this entire site has been crawled from the zero from the zeros Google crawled entire site again because that converter was the main component that they were trying to find and it wasn't in the centerpiece. the person puts into it into the middle because he wanted to show more ads. He wanted people to scroll down and show more ads. But when we take it to the app, it was b increasing its prominence. Again, you can for instance test this. Try to take a a content piece from bottom of the page. Instead of to putting it into the bottom, just actually choose three four different heating uh heating and the text pairs. Then place them in the upper in the ground and put them into the different tabs. you can see more impressions related to this bottom section in your search console the moment that you take it higher behind a tab for instance. So we are trying to basically increase prominence of some section and decrease the prominence of some section while proving the function of that specific page. And I believe since this section is harder to replicate because anybody today can write an expert level content for cancer treatment by using AI but creating a unique design by reading Google's system uh for judgment of that content is not that easy or it's not that easy to replicate either. it requires more effort and I believe they always are going to be focusing on the section of the site that is requiring more human involvement or the more human effort I can say. So, I was thinking of a um of what we talked about before that uh that they use these LLMs to judge the quality of when if we're talking about the content alone, but also the design when they're using these LLMs to judge the content effort made in this site. Uh and I totally agree with you that some keywords are more important than other keywords and they for some of the mo very important keywords they of course they run all the algorithms but but for most keywords probably not because I I have always it just you know thought this that it can't they can't run all algorithms. My question is how do I know if my keyword is important enough so they that they run all the algorithms? >> I believe the main separator or uh the main qualifier there is the commercial value of that specific query term. For instance, if it is about just let's say what is the definition of I don't know bottle I wouldn't run that much of algorithm for these question or these augmentations. But if I see that is about let's say uh SPV or ZIC or anything related to actually health or more commercial terms like hair transplant etc. they will need to run these type of algorithms in these sections because in these areas there is a bigger commercial value to increase also the search quality for their point of view as well especially since I'm in the industry I know in the hair transplant industry if you actually choose a wrong clinic you can really get bad reactions and Google gets lots of lawsuits from these uh let's say the sites that they are ranking for because people are of course suing also the clinic but they also So they sued Google as well because they said Google suggested this clinic. They also say >> I didn't know that Google got lawsuits by that >> lot of losses they are getting from every result that they provide. That's why they even created this about this source section to actually relieve themselves from that responsibility because in the about when you click to the three dots in the snippet they directly say that we are ranking this because page has this this this which means actually they are not suggesting it they are just ranking it because the page has these queries these links or maybe these reviews. So they are trying to justify the ranking by providing that their own perspective for that result. And if people are causing problems for Google due to the harms that they are actually seeing and if that query has commercial value we can assume that actually they will be checking uh more let's say uh sections there for instance punak in the dojik file he says that before they run the rank brain for any page they try to understand whether it has enough level of clicks if a page doesn't have clicks for instance they even don't run uh basely rank brain to get also snapshot of a page and then actually run through it through through an LLM. I believe it is way much more costlier than rank brain. So it means that beyond the clicks possible they need to see uh long duration of let's say ranking and good amount of commercial value, good amount of search activity and I believe also they should be having multiple websites that are targeting the same query in a very similar uh content. if they can't basically rank these sites based on link differences, brand differences or directed content differences. I believe this will be the last section to check there because these other metrics they are not helping to differentiate them or order them that much. But the last one which is about the design or uniqueness or the human effort it might be more helpful and there too I believe human effort in design, human effort in the content or human effort in the back end. There are also different subprocesses too. They don't have to check all of them actually at once too. They can check first check maybe only for the content. If it is giving more click satisfaction because let's I check your content effort just based on the text and I reordered the results for testing and I see that the latest Chrome traffic is satisfied better based on their let's say automated system then I believe I don't need to check your design again because Google always tries to decrease the cost which was an important concept that we also created to explain Google's perspective. They are not trying to rank always the most quality website. They are trying to actually rank the site that is enough level or enough to satisfy the queries while also not creating that much cost for Google to understand or not that much cost for crawling indexing or doing all these named entity recognition or sentence tokenization or all these subprocess as well. Costsaving is the biggest uh let's say aspect for them I can say. So what we uh what we talked about so far leads me to um what I want to talk about now and that's the um the process of doing on page SEO because what we're dealing with here is a very advanced algorithm right now that uses a lot of machine learning and a lot of secret stuff you know click data and uh a lot of design patterns even uh you know layout and a lot of stuff that we don't know about. So I want to talk about onpage issue right now because I when I was reading about your post and uh your videos I was wondering if you think that actually there is a value in correlation tools because we have this surface we have this uh page optimizer pro and even I also made schema writer that also does some correlation and uh neuron writer does I think some also. So do you think what what do you think is the value of correlation tools right now because it's very easy for me you know this is a hair transplant turkey big >> uh what do I need to do 97% okay perfect >> that's right when we published the first case studies actually there was one concept that people uh got some hard time to understand and it was zero search volume keywords uh because I cited in the first case studies that if your content has zero search volume keywords it still helps you to rank higher. It was a bit different mindset to the people back then three four years ago. Uh the main thing is that these tools usually try to imitate what is already existing in the SER. they are not adding unique engrams which actually Google can't create any unique embedding or let's say I'm vectorizing your content and if I don't see any unique vector that is coming from co- occurrences or word or the concept distances it means you are just repeating the same thing that is already existing in the SER but I need beyond that I need to be adding actually some unique information or unique embeddings by increasing the relevance in some in one section in my course actually in one of the speeches I try to give a simple example uh because for instance from Google's point of view they always said they should focus on the intent but I try to give this example to explain it's not always the case because for instance if you say something like this the financial advisor help families to achieve financial independence that's the sentence now I will switch the verse here to say the same thing let's say financial independence is achieved by families through the help of financial advisor the Two sentences mean actually the same thing. But if you run a relevance algorithm in these two sentences, they are going to see that actually the most important words and the context of these two sentences are completely different. Whatever you put into the subject location in the triple or in the sentence, it becomes heavier or more important. >> That's the salience you're talking about. >> In a way, we can also call it salience too. So >> could you explain what salience is for people that don't know? It's basically if you have a query phrase for or if you have a query phrase and then also the context that encapsulates that query the salience represents actually contribution to that closeness or that relevance from that sentence which means the first word usually affects actually heavier or the subject uh of the sentence affects the relevance heavier. That's why usually whatever we are trying to rank for in the query and in that context we are trying to put it into the subject section in the sentences. In both sentences though you say the same thing in both sentences you actually satisfy the same user intent but the relevance changes completely in a similar way too when we actually look at these tools they don't have this type of a judgment they don't calculate relevance in this level for instance when I ask such a question let's say we go through these tools or any of them by the way I'm not judging them by the way I'm just judging all of them actually in as an industry NLP industry let's say I just ask them something simple what are the most relevant and important predicates when it comes to the hormones for instance or if I'm talking about a legal industry what type of predicates I should be using because there are some predicates that are contextless for instance make make a predicate or do these are two predicates can be used in any other context for instance but filing for instance claiming for instance these can be used on certain indust industries only. In that case, what is the percentage of contextual and contextless predicates in the generated text for instance or what is the percentage of stop words to the related words for instance? These type of approaches usually don't appear in these tools that much. They have their own graphics that they generate a score basically for assigning a relevance uh to that specific let's say uh the text. But I believe usually they judge the content based on what is already ranking on the SER may of course they are helpful to accelerate the process to examine the search engine result page and to create some let's say subsections but I believe they are not that much helpful when it comes to the actually exceeding what is already in the SER for that you need again what we call actually human effort a bit thinking and a bit refining what these tools are giving basically to you >> I think it's um I think it's interesting Because um in in my tool schema writer what we do is we uh for any particular targeted keyword we scrape the top 10 search results then we vectorize all of the information. >> Sorry >> that sounds so good. Yeah, we we vectorize all the information and uh we extract all of the known the named entities from Wikipedia and sort the the entities and then we as a part of the on page process we add some content with entities that weren't there before and I always see ranking improvements. I couldn't understand I I couldn't explain why I used the expla explanation to myself well we are covering the entity gap but it's it seems you know I can't I cannot quantify or qualify why are we covering or you know I can see that if we add information from the entity gap that is mean named entities that that's not on the page then I see ranking improvements just by adding this text >> that's initial also It will be helpful too out of maybe three reasons. One of them is it is adding freshness. The second thing is uh in a few speeches I also say that stuffing entities and stuffing keywords are actually the same thing. Uh entity inclusion on these documents actually it is of course helping for the relevance if as long as you add the actually right entities because Google Google has a concept that they call index refinement. Index refinement means that let's say for the cancer they have one index and for breast cancer they have a sub index and for inside that for maybe clinics, hospitals, doctors they have three more actually sub indices inside the indices according to their terminology they also have the indexing charts which means that actually while they are structuring the index in a let's say very hierarchical way the entities that you use are contributing to the relevance in a different way for every one of these indices. If you're able to locate the right entities with the right relations and place them in the right order to your content, you'll be increasing bas relevance to the sum of these indices. Usually the main uh the main danger there. If you are increasing relevance for multiple indices, you might not be able to penetrate enough. In this cases, usually increase impressions uh for many different things, but clicks are not coming that much. That's why sometimes you need to very be like like a kind of sniper level uh certain or precision for these also might be necessary. Years ago I gave an example in one case for this. It was about Abraham Lincoln biography and this might be changing today because the example is really early. If you search for Abraham Lincoln biography and if you check the phrase assass assassination, if the page is mentioning assassination in a as a priority, uh it usually doesn't rank for actual biography context. It ranks only for the assassination. And if you write a page for assassination, then it doesn't rank for the biography, which means they refine the index to separate these two things separately from each other. And if you put the person which is also an entity, if you put the assassin's name as the entity to the page of the biography, it means you'll be decreasing relevance rather than increasing. If you if you try to rank for biography, of course, but if you add the same entity to the other page, you will be increasing relevance in that case. So when it comes to this entity gap, it's not like there is no wrong entity actually. It's usually about organizing them, prioritizing them and relating them in the right order. I can say >> yeah that's exactly how we do it because we uh we have the target keyword that the that the user wants to rank for. So we vectorize that and we we vectorize all of actually all of the content and the named entities and then we grab uh some of the most important entities and put them into the additional content entity content. So it's not just keyword stuffing. >> It's actually writing content that is not was not there before but not ex not based on correlation actually but based on a measurement of the missing entities. >> That also makes sense. Of course when you also take these entities do you take them from usually from Wikipedia or a different knowledge base or >> Wikipedia? Yeah, that also uh since Google also uses them you will be using same place with Google on a level. Of course, Google according according to the I believe not Ponoyak Praagar Rakawan is like that they have integrated really good amount of knowledge bases through their algorithm. Wikipedia is of course one of them >> but they also have different knowledge bases that they are using for actually understanding real world entities. Being able to use maybe different knowledge bases for different industries also might be a good marketing point and also efficiency point as well uh in that area if they if basically want to take it into the kinds of uh next level I can say because possibly they are using really good amount of different knowledge bases according to the subject or basically topic. Are are you um so when it comes to onpage SEO tools are you not you must be using some kind of tool or are you not just using chat chatg give me list of keywords or >> no actually I am still using the nearly the same methodology still human based uh but of course I created some agents for let's say streamlining some processes uh I usually try to not use a tool that much personally at least my team also doesn't use actually we usually create We since we have a kind of very streamlined process for creating the content brief or the design or the text as well. Everything is rule based. Uh and it is very hard to actually make it a machine to follow the these rules. But even if you use a machine for instance there is an agent it is only for finding a research or research paper for example and let's say we are talking about cataract and we ask for the latest researches about the cataract or we talk about anaphylactic reaction and we need a research that actually proves a point. Let's say we say that nuzzle spray is better for anaphylactic reaction and we need a research that says the same thing. Then we basically use one agent to find that research faster. Another agent is usually about comparing triples between the competitors. So actually we can see order of triples and we can do a comparison from noun to noun predicate to predicate let's say there are these type of tools that are that is in the use in the agency. But when it comes to the popular tools there is not that much actually that I can say actually uh we are using not that many for if you are opening programmatic pages though let's say we are in the srebel industry or uh let's assume it is about the sitrains or the CBD industry since there are 5,000 5,000 different sitrains and we need to open 5,000 pages of course I can't use always humans there in that case basically I'm creating some example documents let's say 40 very detailed documents I'm creating with the humans Then I'm using it as a model to train the AI and then I'm scraping some sources creating a knowledge base and with regular intervals I keep publishing the new sections or the new pages uh to increase the relevance. So I try to keep it usually more or less a human involved still uh at least on my end. But if I use something for training there is one tool uh I usually suggest checking that at least because the I guess the creator of that tool is also an ex googler as much as I can remember. It is infranodus. >> The what? >> Infr infranodus. >> Infranodus. >> Yes. >> Infranodus. >> Yes. I believe it means information not in Latin. Uh it's basically a kinds of text graphic creation tool. Basically you can actually see all of the SER ranking documents and their textual graphic and when you see multiple competitors in the form of a graphic you can see which one connects which word or which context of which one and then you can actually do reverse engineering in a faster or better way. It is a good tool to see the anotomy of the SER. uh it also uses sometimes it it has the capacity of generating content through the GPT or OpenAI API keys. Uh but I would be using it only usually for training purposes because explaining these things to the beginners is not that easy. But when you create a graphic with that tool, when you show that this is how the machine sees the SER or these pages, when they see these graphics, entities or uh sentimentality or other things there, it makes it easier to explain to the humans. I use it mainly for training purposes. But I believe if anybody wants to use a tool maybe for understanding these things in a faster way, that also might be helpful too. So I think it's interesting because I know that you spend a lot of time or have spent a lot of time reading all of these p pat patterns. So I uh so I I have two more questions with with relation to the patents and uh that must be that uh there must be some patents that you've read that are simply not used because one thing is that if Google they might patent some you know unique idea to understand language but they might not use this patent. How do you know if a uh because you you read a lot of patents and oh that's a good idea. How do you know if they actually use this patents? >> The one of them is actually personal experience. Let I will give one example. For instance, there was a patent which is a very silly patent and I was like there is no way of actually they are doing it and the patent is basically about this. It's about links actually and it's explaining this to understand whether a link is coming from a manipulated link graph or not. They basically mean that whether it's a purchase link or not. they on purpose decrease the rankings and to see that whether that unnatural link will be going away or not. Let's say you add a link to a page and then the page is decreasing in the rankings and they try to see whether you will remove it or not. >> To me it was a very silly patent but when I tested it actually it was working in that way. Sometimes this personal experience also helps but the main the most important signifier there is actually the engineer. For instance, if you see a pattern from Amit Single or Jeffrey Ain or Michael Banderki or Steven the Baker or Savasan Ben Katahari and there are some group of engineers in Google who are there over 20 years like Paulo Hart what they actually file there is definitely being used. there is no chance that it's not going to be used because Google has a hierarchy of engineers especially if an engineer is there like 20 years and also another funny thing is just some journalist work but they are not hiding it if you check Steven the Baker's actually LinkedIn account you will see actually he's bragging about features in the pets he brags that actually he found features in the past oh >> yeah and when you look at his actually patents exactly it is about features in the past for instance in his patent he says question and the answer if they has a basic trigram which means the question and the answer has three words common it increases relevance for instance for triggering a feature in as well it's from his patent and when I look at actually his basically LinkedIn account I see that he also announced the search experience uh or generative search experience announcement and also he directly works with Savasam Katahari vice president of search intelligence who also works in Gemini and for instance Alexander Gurusheski and I know what rank lab is thanks to him. He says that in his LinkedIn account there is an internal department in Google called rank lab and in the rank lab directly he actually explains what he does already and when I check his involvement with the patents I guess he has four patents I directly say that two of them are common with actually Dr. NORC and if you file a patent with NORC it is going to be used if you know these engineers from there it is way easier for you to understand which patent to actually use or read in that area if engineer is not important you don't have to spend that much time on on that patent actually >> so what I could basically do is I could uh crawl all of the Google patents with these engineering names that you just mentioned I could grab the data leak from last year put it into cloud code and ask cloud code to give me a uh >> template >> definitely it will ask actually work too if cloud has some basic information of uh how Google works because AI is um AI never says I don't know that's the problem and if you actually configure AI in that way if you configure if you are not confident enough don't make things up just say that it is it's not clear for me then actually work definitely because AI they read something in that patent and then they patent means something else and they say entirely something else they sometimes interpret that concept there because for instance in uh I was checking the other day the local search related patterns for instance and they are very clean patterns to read one of them actually was talking about actually an information engine and it was also creating a mapping engine and when I asked the same thing to the GPT GPT was actually interpreting in the wrong way the engines and their relations to each other I believe these tools are a bit designed to just give the answer uh because I believe majority of the people don't realize even if AI gives the wrong answer they are still happy so I believe they are just saving sometimes the day with the AI tools >> I think there I I think you're completely correct and that's the danger danger of asking claude JVT because I mean if you just ask it and it's a you know all knowing I think it's an all knowing engine most of the times it is but it can also be mistaken and it never says I don't know it just makes stuff up. Yeah, >> even actually for instance, I believe everybody most people probably watch actually Breaking Bad. For instance, just ask go GP and say that what happened at the fourth episode of the first season of the Breaking Bad and then just just make things up. Let's say why doesn't actually Walter do this in this episode, it will be answering it. But even if you say something very silly, let's say you made it up, >> you say for instance, why did Walter did this in episode 4? Even if Walter didn't do that, GP answers it like Walter literally did it. It just proves whatever you say and it's hard to >> So I uh I discovered a guy on uh on X that is tweeting about uh something he calls Google Gold Mine. Have you heard about that? >> Google Gold Mine. >> Google Gold M. I think it's called Google Gold Mine. I made a YouTube video about it. >> Interesting. And uh so what he did he spent the last year looking into the uh Google league uh from last year and uh so he spent an entire year looking into this and uh he discovered something that he calls this Google gold mine and he wrote several blog post about it and I I took his blog post and I put them into Claude and Chat and Gemini and asked them to give me a you know top 10 list of things to do on page and I got some super good advice actually. You have to know that the name is Sean Anderson maybe. >> Sean Sean. Yeah, I think Sean. Sean. Yeah, >> he's he's great. I mentioned his name actually in in in this uh podcast as well because uh he is actually one of the people that after the medic update. >> I started reading his I call it SEO Bible or Bible of SEO. His book really helped me and from there I found Bill Slowski who changed my life as well. probably it he might be shown I believe because he also published really good amount of data from there but I don't know how he calls it whether he called it gold mine or something else but I believe he published really good structured inputs for interpreting the Google leak in a comprehensive way I can say >> yeah I think it's a I think it's called Google gold mine anyway but um I read a uh post from you uh nine days ago I think you posted about a new case study that you made where you saw almost 20% click growth in 28 days and so now I'm just quoting uh that you mentioned a lot of words semantic SEO programmatic templates >> rank attribution so social social amplification >> and you know you mentioned a lot of things that you did so is this when you when you talk about social amplification is this backlinks or is just posting to social media what is that the the main thing is that Google actually ranks the web entity rather than the website and when you share something actually inside let's say the Facebook the technically let's say you search for your brand name and the plus Facebook and if you go to your own web page uh on the Google search engine result pages just click to the about this result section you will see that actually the source is not Facebook anymore they still use your name for instance search for corto keyword Facebook click to the three uh settings But in the snippet you won't see Facebook as the source. you will see my name as the source which means actually from LinkedIn, Facebook, Twitter to the my own website or to the many other places my name keeps appearing as a source not actually these LinkedIn or whatever which means that actually they are getting all these information I share across different social media platforms under my name and they create a single index or a single feed directly which means that actually if you are able to publish really useful information in your socials as well it will be also amplifying the trust that Google also feels for you or technically searching doesn't feel anything but let's say uh the trust that they can observe or calculate for you and again it is also one of the factors actually to show the human effort one more time because the answers that you are giving from the socials it it is also being indexed and it is also being used by again their uh let's say training data set or again for by LMS as well and you can change actually the relevance of your brand to a topic by increasing the co occurrence between your brand and that topic as well by using these socials too. For instance, let's say you search for this and under the quotation marks you search for brand name and then the topic name and check what is the size of index. If your competitor has more index pages from Facebook, Reddit or different places for that specific topic, it means they have a bigger index and bigger data set to explain their own angle or to explain or to define that specific entity or the topic in the way that actually they want to define. Because of that actually basically we try to change the document statistics through the socials as well. For instance, when you ask what is a penguin question, you can find different definitions there. It might be a marine bird or it might be a flightless bird or it might be just a seabird. There will be different type of vocabularies around it. If you're able to control which vocabulary and which declarations define an entity through your socials and through your answer website, you can also control the topic and you can also increase your overall relevance there as well. Because at the 8th of the December 2025, Google announced that they are integrating social media channels to the search console directly which means that actually your YouTube channel and your website are judged together like your Google business profile too and your performance in your socials would also support basically your website and if you check your log files you will see that more referror crawls are coming from actually social media platforms. Facebook especially is increasing their rankings inside discussions and forums through their group system and they are also increasing their number of index URLs as well and you can also use these platforms basically like a kinds of parasite SEO platform for ranking for some small terms and also for changing AI answers or data set that they also have for training their own model as well. I think this is super interesting with the posting on social media and I'm doing a lot of testing all of the time in in this area about uh using both social media post to uh as parasite is your properties for longtail keywords but also to see if I can improve organic traffic coming to my sites and I actually do see not as as big increase if as if if I'm doing on page stuff but uh but it does have some positive effects. So uh and with the AI overview, I can actually see that if I post enough >> especially then I can influence what's written in their basically confidence for giving a definition or for giving an answer to because even if they don't rank the answer from Facebook, they are still using it for validating the answer that they are ranking and you can actually change what they believe or what they define in that section. For I usually for S industry for instance usually we use this You can simply say this list me best survey tools according to these criterias. and you can give three criteria and then go to GPT and get let's say 200 criterias and combine them in different ways and scrape all the results from the AI and try to see for what criterias AI is ranking what tools higher than you and in some case you will see social media is also their content is directly ranking in the AI sometimes for some of these and also through these criterias for instance you can also change what they are ranking to because you can only focus on these criterias and make these criterias co- occur with your brand to actually make them related. You can affect their answers through actually basically by changing document statistics. Changing document statistics based on means saying the same thing by creating consensus through the third party sources. It might be a website or a social media platform or Reddit account and you will need to distribute that knowledge and that information like doing propaganda actually that's why we sometimes call it illusion of choice. When you search for the best survey tool, you don't actually get the best one. You get the best according to the data that is created on the web. Basically, >> you get the you get the best survey tool according to the who's doing the most SEO. >> Yes, that's true. Who >> Yeah. Whoever has more Reddit accounts or >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Who has more Reddit accounts? And uh Yeah. But it goes up and down and now it's Reddit and uh uh and tomorrow it might be another thing. But ma they changed their indexing rules last summer with regards to Instagram post. So you got a uh you got a message inside of your Instagram account that uh be aware that in the future all of your posts can actually be indexed now and shown in Google. So when you go into ahref now and search traffic for instagram.com, facebook.com and threads.com, threads is there. >> Yeah. Clone. >> Uh you can actually see the organic traffic is going up up up. So it's totally crazy. Uh yeah, >> I believe the last core update I believe was about creating fun uh foundation of this social search because 8th December they announced 12th December they started the core update. I believe it's not a coincidence at all and if you check their announcement from 2023 September for helpful information from people on social uh social media and forum sites. That was the announcement that they did. It is again actually in the same mindset they go they actually continue it is always about this people for people on search >> usually brings big the social media sites and the forums or again human effort comes into the angle too they try to always separate machines from the humans and they when they come to a site they try to say is this a business is this a real business owned by a human or is it just a random outerated fake lawyer or fake clinic or something like that basically. >> So what I what I just started doing is I uh I'm very active on X, Facebook, LinkedIn and uh and YouTube also. So what I just started doing is that when if when people are posting something positive about me on X or Facebook, I'm grabbing these URLs and sending them to the indexes because I want to try to manipulate and see well what can can you what's the long-term positive effects but I know there will be positive effects but you you won't see any positive effects if the links are not indexed. Yeah, that's >> I start actually whenever I see something ah grab that, send it to the indexer. >> That's actually good too. And also you can use social media platforms for indexing purposes too. They are being crawled and whatever you link frequently from your site, you will see that is being also crawled more too. If you use URL inspection tool for some of your URLs, you can see Tik Tok or Facebook is the referer page there and they are finding content from there and indexing it >> directly as well. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's fun. So, uh, Cory, I think, uh, that we spend a little bit more than one hour now. So, I I think I'll I'll close now. I have so many questions still that I I didn't ask you about, but that's uh we have to do it one more time, but I want to thank you for coming on and it's been been a pleasure. >> Thank you so much. It's also a pleasure for me, too. I really enjoyed talking to you and I I really like again like following you as well because I really enjoy parasite SEO successes and actually seeing them because a very good way of shaping the SER actually kinds of shortcut for everything and I believe people also realize that it's it's not just for ranking it's also about changing what Google believes on. >> If you say something from an authorative place Google also changes what they trust as well. So thanks for also for your shares too. I'll stop the recording now, but uh hold on. >> Okay, we'll >> go. Okay, byebye."
}