# Ross Simmonds — How to Rank #1 When AI Is Taking Over ft. Ross Simmonds

**Channel**: Marketing Against the Grain (featuring Ross Simmonds)

**URL**: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xLWBDKX-_3Q

**Date**: December 3, 2024

## Transcript

"Hey, if you're like us, you're asking a lot of\nquestions around how AI is disrupting marketing, especially disrupting search, if\nyou're worried about losing traffic from search engines, this is the episode for you. We have\nan amazing expert on who's going to walk through how you should actually be focused to\nwin Google search today, what you should do to spend your marketing time and content time\noutside of Google search to really grow and scale with content, and he's going to break\ndown all the AI tools he's using and give you like a template and master class framework for\nhow to automate a lot of your content production with AI Today we're joined by Ross Simmons,\nwho is the author of 'Create Once, Distribute Forever' And the founder of Foundation, and he is\nputting on a master class on the show today. Let's get into today's episode. Ross, welcome to the show. There are really two\nthings we have to talk to you about. You are a person who understands how to\ngrow companies grow audiences, get millions of eyeballs using content, and you literally wrote the book on it.\nAnd there's two there's two clear subjects for us to talk about. One of them is\nsomething we've talked about a lot on this show And people are really starting to feel,\nwhich is the change in nature of search engine. How are we all going to cope with the\ndisruption of Google? And then I think the other thing our listeners would love is, you\nare a content creator yourself. You know how to create incredible content, just how you are\nusing AI tools. I think that will be an incredible amount of knowledge for our\nlisteners to get. So let's start with the start. You know, we've talked about this a lot\non the show, Kip and I, we both built our careers in the time of Google, which was the\nmost funnest time to be a marketer, because you could do like smart things to get traffic from\nGoogle. And we kind of talked about this, maybe like 12-18, months ago. We really started\ntalking about it, November 2022, when chatgpt was launched. But people are now feeling it. I\nthink now it's becoming real, which is like, I'm losing 10% of my traffic, 20% of my traffic.\nHow do I even grow next year? And so just give us your like, where are you in this\nlike, what's your what's your take on it, now? we've given our take a lot. I'd love to just\nget your take. How you think things are?  The state of AI in search? Yeah, I think the current situation is pretty\nstraightforward. For the last few years, a lot of brands, a lot of businesses, were able to\ngenerate a lot of ROI on the back of SEO by pressing publish on blog posts, press and\npublish on landing pages, building a few links and calling it a day. You do that consistently.\nYou understand search intent, you apply best practices around H1s (headline 1), all of that good\nstuff, and you're able to pretty much rank content successfully, especially if you have a\nhigh authority domain. When you look at startups, when you look at fast, growing\ncompanies and even successful companies who have been around for decades, everybody is\ngetting a little bit nervous around the future of the way that their website is able to\nconsistently generate organic traffic. For good reason. With a lot of the latest algorithm\nupdates, they have intentionally been trying to reduce the likelihood of having content show up\nin the SERP that is mediocre. So the biggest piece of advice that I give people right off of\nthe jump is to recognize that mediocrity and AI generated content as it comes out of the LLMs\nprobably isn't going to be sufficient enough for you to rank in the SERP, because\nessentially, Google already knows those answers, and they're using AI overviews to\nrespond to the queries with that type of insight So what do we have to do as marketers?\nWe have to go back to fundamentals. We have to recognize that the old way doesn't work. You\ncan't just press publish on mediocre pieces and expect to rank because you have a few links.\nYou can try to do that. And we saw a significant amount of people, a significant\namount of brands skyrocket. When chat GPT first came out. Everybody was going into the programmatic SEO world. Let's create a bunch of pages pages. Let's scale this. Let's like, just use ChatGPT to create 1000s of pages,\nand look at our traffic. It's skyrocketing. Pro Tip folks, don't brag about when you are using AI When you try to game the system,\ndon't tell people you're trying to game the system. Real G's move in silence, like, this is\nnot what you do. So many people made that mistake, and then they're like, Oh, why is my\nwebsite getting dink? Because you were dumb. Like, you can't do that. You can't do that. You\nmake Google look silly. Google will make you look silly. There was a dude, right? He went here and viral, I\nbet you, he wished he didn't go viral. And he was like, yeah, look at this.\nLook what I've done. And then everyone was like, three days later, site = toast. Gone. You can't do that. What are you doing? So I\nthink where, where we're at today, like recognizing a lot of these things, one of the\nthings that we've done with a lot of our partners which have allowed them to retain and\nmaintain or increase their traffic amidst all of this chaos, is like we double down on high\nquality content and making sure that the like expertise and authority, like the fundamentals\nof double E's: so experience, expertise, authority and trustworthiness come through the\ncontent. So there's always an author page. That author page has to be in depth. It has to be\nlike a real person. You can't have something created by Ross, no name person, that doesn't\nactually exist. And we've implemented those strategies while also optimizing and improving\nlight content. So instead of allowing a piece of content to decay like there's a real thing\nthat a lot of brands overlook, which is content debt Over the years. Of creating content, you\nbuild up a library, but some of that content in the library is outdated, like a piece of\ncontent that was great in 2016 might be mediocre today, because the standards and the\nexpectations of consumers is higher and shifted So we're encouraging brands to leverage AI\nto take those pieces and make them  better faster. In a traditional sense, we would\nhave just threw editors and writers at it and been able to tell them to use their\nhuman hours like to actually just do the work.  But now, with AI, we can augment the human to optimize\nthese pieces to still make them excellent and great at a faster rate. And that's been a key\nfunction for a lot of organizations that have been around for a long time, that we work with.\nNow on the early stage companies, you're in a ridiculous time. There's no world in\nwhich you get--like, if you're early stage folks, like, I'll pour one out for you, it's,\nit's, it's brutal. It's absolutely brutal. So what I believe you have to do is play a whole\ndifferent game. I think that you need to identify like, you're like, up and coming,\nkeywords that you're going after, that your competitors haven't even touched yet, that the\nincumbent that you're trying to disrupt isn't even thinking about. And you try to create\nthose pieces because you want to rank for those before everybody else, so you can establish\nsome authority. Now here's where you also have to think differently. You have to recognize\nthat Google isn't the only place in the town like the amount of traffic, the amount of leads\ncoming from other sources beyond Google now, is at an all time high. There's a more diverse\nlevel of traffic coming to websites. So what should you be doing? You should be thinking\nabout distributing your content and having your brand show up in other places. We all know that\nGoogle and OpenAI have a very strange but great relationship with Reddit. So if I'm early\nstage, you know what I'm probably doing. I'm thinking about ways in which I can create\ncontent that shows up in Reddit. We also notice that Google is starting to index Reddit more\nthan any other website, like it's in the top three most visited websites in the US. But for\nsome reason, marketers are still scared of Reddit Why? Why? Like this is a massive\nopportunity if you're early stage, Reddit is a massive play. People self identify. The\nonly people who are subscribing to a subreddit about marketing are marketers. The only people\nsubscribing to a subreddit about sneakers are sneaker heads. The only people subscribing to a\nsubreddit about fantasy football are fantasy football fans, so why not embrace the time and\nenergy to like go into these communities? So what we're recommending to partners who are in\nthose stages where you might not have the same level of authority in a market is to think\nabout LinkedIn articles. Think about creating Reddit posts that are native to certain\nsubreddits and communities. Do an analysis of the SERP for your high priority keywords, and\nfigure out what keywords you should be ranking for that Reddit is ranking for, and then go out\nand create that content as well on Reddit Answer the queries that are already ranking in\nReddit for your various keywords, and then get yourself some upvotes, because you add value to\nthe community, include links to your assets and give those up votes as well. So a long story to\na short question. But essentially, there's two components. One, strive for content excellence\nwith the pieces that you're creating, and make sure that the old pieces are now great and\nthey're not mediocre. And then two, think about the various ways in which Google, as well as\nall the other LLMs, are actually scraping the internet so you can influence them by showing\nup in more places, like Reddit, like Quora, like Facebook groups, even like all of these\ndifferent things you need to be considering as new ways to get in front of your audience. Hey guys, real quick. You know, we love\nbuilding custom GPTs on the show. We love sharing it with all of you. Well, we wanted to\nkick that up a notch. We just developed this free guide that teaches you how to build your\nown custom GPT on on ChatGPT. We've taken the guesswork out of it. We've got templates. We've\ngot a step by step guide to design and implement custom models. So you can focus on\nthe part that's actually fun, the part we love actually building it. And if you want it, you\ncan grab a link in the description below and go check it out now. Now back to today's show. I got a quick follow up, Kieran first, because\nthe number one question I get from founders, Ross is At this stage of the game, if I'm coming into it how much time should I spend on\ntext based content for the Google search engine? That is, like, full stop the most popular question I get,\nI'd love to hear your answer to that I'll probably steal it. Yeah. I think, as a founder, you're gonna\nhave a lot of things on your plate. In an ideal world, you can have someone do it full\ntime. Like ideal world, you have budget, you have scope One person focuses on it full time, but Hold on, still above other channels? Is that what you're saying? No, No; that's different I'm trying to get the mix\nI'm trying to get the mix right I would say that they're probably gonna, they're\ngonna spend 50% though, on the written side. And the reason why is because the internet is\nstill foundationally built on the back of written word. It's not yet at a point where the\ninternet is like truly built on the back of video. It's written content within the video,\nand like the headlines, the subjects, all those things that support it. But at the end of the\nday, I would say 50% should still be rooted in the written word, because that content should\nbe repurposed. It should be repackaged. And I would say that not everyone is made for video,\nnot everyone is made for audio, although AI makes it way easier now, and everybody should\nbe more more comfortable with those things. I would say 50% of an individual on your team\nwho's driving growth and marketing in an early stage company should be thinking about\ncontent production, producing stories. And it's not just Google, though, like when I'm talking\npure written so it's writing social content. It's writing blog posts. It's going into Reddit\nand writing about things in there. It's writing your email newsletters. It's writing the drip\ncampaigns for lead magnets. Like 50% of written content is still very valid. The other 50% are you? Is it like content as well,\nor doing other things? Like, do you think people should invest in video much earlier than\nthey are, podcast, much earlier than they are, like they're much harder forms of content to\nthere's an audience around. But do you are they things you recommend people start earlier than\nthey maybe are doing? If I'm a founder in B2B, then there's no\nquestion that video is going to be at play, right? Video in B2B on LinkedIn is a\nchannel that is taking off, and it makes sense, LinkedIn is incentivized to recognize that if\nthey are able to capture people's attention, then they have more opportunities to generate\nad revenue. So they're investing a lot of money in creators to create content that is video\nbased. I'm one of those creators, like I have LinkedIn courses and things like that, rolling\nthat LinkedIn pays for me to create, because they know that there's so much value in having\npeople who produce that type of content. So my recommendation to founders is get on the train.\nThere's a massive increase I've seen. We put out a video the other day, and it had like\n400,000 views, and it was like a video that was 30 seconds, but like that reach in the B2B\ncontext is unheard of traditionally. LinkedIn shorts are are getting going, they're getting\ngoing. For sure, right? And the I think the lesson that you're telling people is like, understand where\nyou're playing and what the incentives are where you're playing. And right now, LinkedIn\nincentives is to make video a bigger thing, and so if you publish video, it's going to get\nunfairly distributed. Their algorithm, everything else is going to pump it up, and\nyou're likely gonna get more attention for video than you are if you just go write a text\npost. That's 100% it.  And I think what people need to think about\nwhen they're figuring out how to make this mix, like, I would say, 80% of all of the activities\nthat your marketing efforts are going into should be things that you are pretty confident,\nlike, very confident, are gonna work, and then the rest are your experimental efforts, right?\nLike five years ago, three years ago, I would have threw Reddit in the experimental bucket,\nbut now it's like, it's a lock. It works. It's not as questionable anymore. But you might say\nTikTok, like you might say, I'm going to engage with Tiktok influencers to see if they can help\nme scale a B2B product. That's an experiment today So 80% should be surefire wins like\nthese are going to ring the cash register for you Let's invest in these things, because we\nknow they're going to win. We know that if we produce case studies, we know if we create\nbottom of funnel content, comparison pages if we create these types of assets, they're going\nto drive ROI for us. Do those things, but then a portion of your budget, a portion of your\nenergy, should be experiments, because what you want to do is you want to get a win, and if you\ncan get an experiment that wins before your competitors win, then you now have Content\nMarket Fit, Channel market fit before your competition, so you can start to get an\nadvantage that they don't have, and then you just retain that knowledge and that capacity to\ndrive leads through a channel that they haven't even experimented with. It sounds like you're saying, okay, like,\nstill do the Google thing, right? You still go out, look for the keywords. Try to rank for the\nkeywords. Maybe do bottoms up. Look for the ones that are most relevant. Convert very well.\nAnd then, like, work your way up to more top of the funnel. Look at, overall, we call them\nat HubSpot, like surround sound. Look at, all of the places you could show up\noutside of Google for that topic. Like, maybe it's Reddit, maybe it's LinkedIn, what? Where\nare there other relevant places you could appear? Yeah, just coming back on the Google\none like you. I'm curious to even get-- how you use Google versus AI today, right? So\nwhen I, when I think about my own habits, yeah, I use AI exclusively, nearly. I still use\nGoogle now and again, but it's unbelievable, given like, two years ago, we were, we were\njust using Google without even thinking about anything else, right? Just Google, Google,\nGoogle, Google, Google. Two years later I hardly use Google for anything that you Google.\nAnd so the reason I do that is because it's able to give me clear and concise answers.\nIt's a research assistant. It goes off, it reads all the blue links, comes\nback and gives me clear and concise answers. So for these companies that are going, Okay, well,\nthere's still some keywords. I want to create some really great content, like, not just the\nbasic content, but the it's an in, but they're all informational keywords, right? They're\ninformational queries. Do you believe that's that's even going to be enough? Because the\nisn't the challenge, not just that I need to try to rank for these things, but like, No\none's even going to see my page. Because why would I ever go to my website to get the answer\nin the first place? Like, how do you how do you talk to people about that part, which is, are\nwe even going to continue to get clicks to our pages? If the AI is just going to give us a\nbetter answer and a better experience? I think we are in somewhat of a bubble in Tech\nwhere we over estimate how many people have already changed their search behaviors. Yeah,\nis there a decrease 100% but if you look at the data like I shared this a while back, so it's a\nbit dated, but it's still, I believe, relevant. When you look at the monthly web traffic to\nsites like Google, YouTube, it is still a giant it is still at an absolute giant level. And for\nus to see a cultural shift where this amount gets reduced to even the levels of Facebook, it\nwould have to be decades of decline, two years of decline doesn't evaporate over 80 billion\nmonthly visits to Google, so that number to be reduced is going to take a fundamental cultural\nchange where a significant amount of people who are doing that search today literally die, and\nthat's not happening for like, 20 years But that number could go down, and all the\npeople who are still doing it could not click. There are multiple variables there.\nYeah, there are multiple variables. The rate in which it will happen, though, I believe\nis overestimated. I believe that we will see the decline in the amount of people who are\nclicking, I think we're going to see a decline in the number of people who are using Google,\nbut I think the vast majority of the world will still use Google as a central entry point,\nbecause Chrome is their default browser, Google is their default website that they pre visit.\nLike in tech, we all use OpenAI, Claude We have perplexity, we have all of these things to\nanswer our questions now, great. But I still think we are very, very early. I was at an\nevent with a bunch of grocers, and I was talking to this group of like C suite\nexecutives, and I asked them, I was like, folks, how many of you have heard of or used\nClaude lately? How many of you have used Perplexity? How many of you have even heard of\na tool like Palantir? There was only one hand that went up amongst a room of like, 300 of the\ntop grocers in North America, and I was like, we're very early. And that was the signal to me\nthat this is still early days. So my message to folks who are even thinking strategically\naround this stuff is, you still have a competitive advantage if you're even listening\nto us have this conversation because you can, one, use AI, because most computer competitors\nprobably still aren't, even though it's always talked about on X and on LinkedIn, most people\nstill aren't using it. So you can win that way. And two, you can get ahead of the curve by\nstarting to distribute your content now into these channels where OpenAI has a relationship\nwith Reddit, so seed your content there, so the LLMs start to respond the way that you want to.\nThere's this concept of generative engine optimization that I think is going to become,\nin some ways, I don't want to say it's the new SEO but it is a real reality. And with this,\nthere was a study that was conducted, and we wrote about this on the foundation blog, where\nit talks about the ideas that go into optimizing for the LLM so essentially, these\nthese students, had done this analysis around how you can actually influence the things that\nthe LLMs are saying back, whether it's AI overviews Claude, GPT, all of those different things.\nAnd it was clear, very clear, that if you made content that was easy to understand,\nauthoritative with the tone, you use technical terms that are related to your niche, it was fluent.\nYou cited sources, you had quotations and stats that you would actually see an\nincrease in your ability to show up in the response from an LLM. A lot of those ideas are\nthe same ideas as great SEO. And if you can apply the best practices around great SEO to\nyour content, you should be able to influence the LLMs, especially if you distribute your\ncontent into the places in which the LLMs have licensing deals to scrape their information.\nThat's the icing on the cake. And if you do that now, you set yourself up. So as that\ndecline in search, the decline in click, start to happen, you're now able to ensure that you\nshow up when someone asks those questions to Google AI overviews, Claude, perplexity, etc. Yeah, this is a great point. Actually, I do\nthink we're going to see it in B2B much quicker than B2C, and I think we're going to\nsee it in certain B2B niches much quicker than other B2B niches, and to where there's\nlike much more tech proficiency. Can I just go back to one thing you mentioned? Because I\nthink our audience would really love a breakdown of how you do this. So one of the\nthings you mentioned is definitely being a big part of our growth, which is historical content\noptimization, which you described, that you have a large library and you have to continue\nto update and refresh. Update and refresh that library, and you mentioned you use AI to\naugment that strategy. Can you go through like what exactly you're using AI to do there?\nYeah for sure. So the first thing that we do is we\nlook at trends around our traffic, and what we're looking for are any pieces that have\nstarted to show decline. Any pieces that at one point were like, ranking and thriving, had a\nlot of high quality backlinks. It's kind of like this Simmons hierarchy of Maslow's needs\nkind of thing where we were like, all right, if these pieces have a lot of backlinks, they used\nto generate a lot of referral traffic. These are the pieces that we need to kind of fix up.\nAnd then when we go through the process, we're running like an analysis through a tool like\nPhrase or something like that, which will scan the text and identify whether or not it\ncompares to the content that's in the SERP. So we'll do that cross analysis to see that SERP,\nwhat content is already ranking and how is what is in this content? Are these pieces 2000 words\non average, are they 4000 words on average? What are some of the key points that they have?\nWe'll use \"wayback\" time machine to even look back at like, what are the updates that these\npieces have made over time to get better and to rank and then start to identify the gaps. Then\nwe go back to our tool, and ideally, what we're doing is we're not just having a human go in\nand optimize it, but we're having a human that is augmented with AI to go through a series of\nchecklists that we create around how to improve these pieces. So some of the things that we\nalways do is we always set the bar for high editorial standards. So we ensure that the\ncontent reads like a human. We use the AIDA methodology as an intro or bottom line up\nfront, we use those as kind of like the starting point over time in the early days that\nmight not have been embraced by the writer. So we adjust it and we have them improve it. We\nalways strive to incorporate multimedia content So if we see that in the SERP, there's\na lot of YouTube content showing up, we will go one of two ways. Either we will have the\nclient, the partner, create that YouTube video, or we'll develop that YouTube video with one of\nour partners, or we'll leverage a tool like HeyGen to essentially take the entire blog post,\nturn it into a YouTube script, and then have an avatar read that content as an individual\nrepresenting that brand and embed that at the top because we see those as helping rank\nhigher. We embrace those double EEAT best practices so we're essentially doing GEO on those pieces.\nWe're adding in stats, we're adding in quotes we're trying to find edu links that we can incorporate. We're grabbing screenshots from those journals in those\npapers, or even using ChatGPT, Claude etc. to help us find what pieces could be used\nto support that optimization. We're then ensuring that there's internal links from that\npiece to newer pieces. One of those things that happens, if a post was published in 2014 it's\nlinking to pieces from 2012 we need to update those links so when they're linking to newer\nassets, so we would go through and actually update those links as well. And then finally,\nwe just make sure that that reads like a human and that goes to an editor who would do that\npiece and that side of it. Now, one of the things that we also love to do when we're\noptimizing these pieces is we try to make sure, to ensure that they're adding value. We give\naway something tactical and very tangible utility driven in B2B. One of the best cheat\ncodes that we found recently to do that is to leverage AI to say, hey, ChatGPT, I just\ncreated this piece. Please give me four ideas on a tangible template, guide, resource or\nasset that I could give someone to make this piece even better. They will then give you a\nfew of those ideas. You then can take that and tell them to turn it into a spreadsheet. Chef's\nkiss; wild that we can do that these days. I love the time that we live in, because they\nused to take me so long to create them. You get that spreadsheet, you format it, you redesign\nit, you pass it off, and it's game over. You do that over and over again, and your\ncontent wins, because you have the best piece of content in the SERP. And then what I love,\nthough, guys like, at the end of the day, everybody is hating on this race to the top of\nthe server. I love it because it is a competition to see who can create the best\ncontent, and that's what we all should have been doing for the first place. Every marketer\nlost track of the fact that this isn't just like a game where you're creating content for\nthe sake of creating content. We're creating content to add value to the lives of the people\non the other end of the intent in the search query So if we all are trying to create the\nbest pieces of content possible, then it is going to be a net positive for the culture, for\nthe industry, and for people that consume the content, which is a win win for everybody. So\nI'm excited for it, and I think the race is on, and people should double down on it like it's\nnot enough to just create the light content anymore.   I want to just make sure we put in a master\nclass clip here to clip that part out. And if you don't just carbon copy what Ross did if you're listening to this, and if you don't\ncarbon copy that process. You're nuts. We have seen a similar process has been\none of the core reasons we've grown, But you have systemized that an intertwined AI\nfar better than we have done. And some of the things that you've said\nthere are really, really smart the way that you capture the SERP, the way that you actually understand based upon that, what are the core\nelements that are no longer--like, the SERPs update That's what people don't realize, right?\nSo, like, you rank a post, and over time this Google wants to provide different things\nto the user, because the user wants different things And you're basically scraping their\nSERPs and saying, Well, these are the different things the user wants. And then you're using AI\nto be able to get some of that stuff and provide it to an editor. So they just pick it\nup and they say, okay, here are all the things you need to incorporate. And then the way\nyou're using AI to create multi media versions of that to like, you know, incorporate that\ninto post is super, super smart. Do you have an app or something you've built for that?\nWe have just these large Google Sheets. We're doing all of this somewhat in Google Sheets.\nHave you built something different? Or are you doing it in Google sheets as well? Yeah. So the way that we've been approaching\nit, we have a checklist, and the checklist goes to the writer, the editor, around every\noptimization, and it's assigned to every project and they essentially just have to do\nthe checks and balances around this checklist, around like make sure that there's charts and\ngraphs to support ideas. Optimize the lede using AIDA, add that YouTube video, and then\nwe have a process around that for whether or not they should use AI video or human video,\nheadlines aligned with the intent. Embed social content for dynamic content,\ngetting that third party quote, making sure that we're having definitions within each piece\nlinked to high domain authority sites, credible sources All of these things are broken out\ninto it. There is one part of this that we haven't talked about, which is the distribution\nthat happens after we did create a tool for that part of the engine. So after you do these\noptimizations, a lot of marketers call it quits and say, That's it. We press Publish. We're\ndone. Successful. Let's pop the bubbly. We've just created a great piece. But as we talked\nabout earlier, around the shift to needing a diverse source of traffic, we believe that\nthat's when the job actually begins. You press publish, now it's time to distribute that content.\nSo we've been working on a tool called distribution.ai where we've been actually like\ndeveloping this product around: you ingest your blog posts, and from that becomes a lot of\nmultimedia assets that go into Reddit, multimedia assets that go out onto X, onto\nLinkedIn, that go into different channels, and that's been ridiculously successful for us in\nsupporting our partners. Eventually, we'll be rolling it out completely to the vast majority\nof the world, etc, but today, it's something that we use internally to really get more value\nout of our pieces, where you press publish and you need to turn that same piece into a\nLinkedIn article. We make it easy to do that. Turn that same piece into a carousel that lives\non LinkedIn. Make it easy to do that. Turn that same piece into that video of myself talking\nabout this topic. We're going to do that. All of those things are going to be\nas a part of this product. Yeah, we have a product in HubSpot called Content Remix\nthat does--I love Content Remix!--that does a lot of that It's so good! It's a great product.\nBut I think what's interesting about what you're saying is first, first of all, distribution.ai.\nI've never been more pissed that didn't buy a domain name. I was just actually gonna ping you, Kipp I knew you were gonna slack me, but like,\nshould've bought this domain name that I really wish I owned Someday they're gonna be like,\n\"Kipp, why did you buy Ross's tool?\" I just wanted the domain name, so bought the whole company. \"Just need the domain\" So good. It's so good. Probably Dharmesh didn't get that one. I know, Darmesh has all the sick domain names.\nDoes he? I love it. Yeah, he totally does. But I think the point you're also making is,\nthat content repurposing, that distribution-- it's far broader than most people think. And it's also like, very \"of the moment\", right?\nLike, of this moment, right now, you would for sure, have it spit out a short form\nvideo script for LinkedIn, right? But maybe a year, two years from now,\nthat wouldn't be in there, right? So it's like a very dynamic playbook.\nJust like the SEO side you also have the dynamic nature\nof the distribution side AI is causing that change to happen. Well, you think of Quora, right? If I was\nto go back to eight years ago, Quora was it. Get into Quora, answer some high quality questions and you're gonna see some great\nreferral traffic coming from that site. Over time, things change, and you have to change your distribution strategy with it,\nright? But if you were early and making your bets on Reddit? Ching Ching, well done! You\nmade the right call investing in that three four years ago, because now it's those posts\nfrom three to four years ago that are ranking in the SERP today. So I think when you think of\nAI though, like we are all going through one of the most transformational times as marketers,\nit's influencing all of us. It's going to continue to influence all of us, and we all\njust need to embrace the technologies as we move ahead What tools, Ross, AI tools, do you think--\nI think this is a good place to end on What AI tools do you think our\nlisteners should be using in their companies? either for their personal content,\nor for their company?  Like, what ones are you seeing real value in? Yeah, I'll be a good company boy;\nfirst of all, I do love Content Remix (by HubSpot) I love HubSpot's tools. The stuff\nthat you folks have rolled out has been great.  I'll start with that. We didn't pay him to say that, thank you.\nThey didn't pay me guys. the AI writer tool is pretty good. I love it.\nI'm a big fan. But if we want to get a little bit scrappy with it, I'd say some of the tools\nthat I'm a fan of right now would include A lot of folks have heard of Descript.\nI'm a big fan of Descript. I'm a big fan of Riverside. ElevenLabs is fascinating to me.\nIt was the first one that I used Probably two years ago now to like,\ncreate a synthetic version of my own voice. And even some of my podcast episodes, like\nthe greats, include AI versions of my voice, and people love them, and they don't know that\nall the time, that it's not me, and it's fascinating. So ElevenLabs is cool. One of my\npersonal use cases for ElevenLabs that I've found very valuable is using it to read things. So ElevenLabs\ngives you the ability to find a blog post, submit the link, and it will read it back to\nyou, kind of in any voice you want. I've been using it to read it back in my own voice, which\nis weird, but it's gonna happen. It's cool. It absorbs a lot better for some reason. So I've\nbeen in like a weird way to learn and study I'll also have a conversation with\nChatGPT is something that I'm trying to work through, and then I'll have the\nAI, like, read it back to me in my voice, and it's also been valuable. I'm a big fan of\nleveraging tools like-- good old fashioned ones, figma is great,\ntheir AI tools have been awesome. Notion, I'm a big fan of what they've been doing. I think,\nlike, Canva has picked up a lot with the work that they've been done doing with AI.  Yeah they have some great AI functionality, very cool. to like automate the creation of images. One thing that I did recently, I went to ChatGPT,\nand I uploaded, 20 of my tweets, and I was like, write another 20. And then I asked\nit to create a spreadsheet, and it gave me a spreadsheet and I was able to connect that to Canva.\nI was able to use MidJourney to create images, like hundreds of images that were all\ndifferent. And I was able to get a connection between those two via Zapier from there, it essentially was uploading a\nbunch of these different images on my behalf. So I think combining a lot of these tools is\nalso very powerful today, and they give you a ton of opportunity. Runway is also interesting,\nwhere you're able to, take a graphic and make it move. It's gotten so much better. I was\nin Italy, Kipp and I were talking about Italy a little while ago, but I found runway while I\nwas in Italy, and I took a photo of the beach, and there was somebody on the beach walking and\nsomething like that. So I uploaded this photo, and then their hands started to go through\nthem, and, like, they turned into a monster. And I was like, Oh, this is horrible. This is\nbrutal. I'm never using this again, but you fast forward, and I started to use it again and\nit's fixed a lot of the problems. So much better. And the rate in which things are getting\nfixed is the coolest part about all of this. Like you're seeing the improvements\nacross all of these tools so much more quickly. HeyGen as well. Like we were talking about how\nearly days you put on HeyGen, and it's like, oh, this tool doesn't work. One example of HeyGen\nin the capabilities is like I was literally running an experiment where I recorded a video\nof myself talking into the camera, and I talked to the camera just like I normally would, and\nthen I created an HeyGen avatar to say the same thing, and I put it up on social and I was\nasking people like, which one is the real Ross? My assistant got it wrong. My colleagues got it\nwrong. My own mom got it wrong, like, and my mom went into deep denial. She went into deep\ndenial. She was like, I know my son. There's no way I know my son. I know who you I was like,\nNo, Mom, that ain't me. So now we have a secret code, and I'm like, Mom, if somebody calls you\nwith my voice, hang up and call me back, and there's a secret code, because you're gonna need stuff. Yeah, right.\nYeah, I'm gonna try to play around with HeyGen because my dream is, like to join\nmeetings that I don't really need to be in and send my avatar and like, the avatar just be\nthere going \"Yep, yep\" It's true. I'm in meetings where sometimes I go, \"I think that person is not real\" Here it is. It's like, the mannerisms, like\nthis one here is, like, the real me. This was the AI, me. And look at this--\"video 2 is AI\"\n\"Two is definitely AI\" No folks! \"Me and the kids think\"-- Video 1 is looking good. They got a lot of the\njerkiness out of the ball. That was the good thing. Yeah! They didn't see that glitch. But, like, there\nwas a moment where it was obvious, but nobody picked it up It used to be like, that moment was like every other frame  \nBut now it might be one second out of 30 seconds Which is, is a massive\nchange to your point. It is. You didn't mention any of the the core tools. I'm\ncurious, have you like, I'm obviously a pretty large, Claude fan person, and so they released, I\ndon't, did you see their release? Today is November 27 we're probably gonna do a full\nvideo on this. But the writing style release? It's so good. It's I just want to say\nthat I think they stole this from me. Kieran's ego can't take it. I did a whole\nvideo series on, the things that I figured out with Claude, and the big\nthing I had figured out was How to create writing styles and pair that with post\ntemplates. And so you could say, well, here's the different posts that do well on a platform, and then\nhere's different writing styles, and you combine those things.  And we have Simon coming on, who leads Claude Product next week So I'm gonna ask him, but that's what\nyou can do now, right? You can just create any writing style, either your own\ncontent, anyone else's content, pick the writing style, and then you can actually go in\nand custom say, who are the audience, and all of this stuff. And I'm curious, do you think the writing tools like that are are valuable? Do you use them? Are you excited\nby these kind of features? I'm ridiculously excited by them. I think that\nthey are a game changer, and every writer who doesn't use them is essentially just like\nallowing those who do use them to have a competitive advantage. I am a massive believer that\nthese tools should be viewed as an augmentation of human skills. And if you are a great writer,\nusing AI makes you a greater writer, faster. If you are a bad writer, though, I will\ntell you, AI can't save you. Exactly, this is point If you're bad, AI will not save you.\nGet back to school, go take the course, learn the fundamentals of copywriting, \nthe fundamentals still matter but it's kind of like any other tool,\nlike everybody gets this whole thing twisted. If you give me a hammer, I can do some things,\nbut if you give somebody who has literally used a hammer 1 million times, they are\nprobably going to be better than me. So the tool can give everyone value, but the value is\nreally connected to the talents behind it. And if you can empower talented people to use these\ntools, they can do ridiculously valuable things And if you don't believe that, just\nlook at YouTube, there are literally YouTube channels that are AI generated content\nthat have over 500,000 subscribers, there are AI TikTok accounts that have hundreds of 1000s\nof subscribers. It is no longer an opinion that can be like held responsibly, that AI is not\ngood for people to use if they want to get more done and be creative and be more successful.\nIt's impossible to say that. It's literally wild that people still have that debate. It\nneeds to be used all of the tools, long story answer to a very short question again, but yes,\nI'm a big fan. I think Claude is going to go far I think, like all the writing tools are\nbeneficial, but I think we still need to remember that the people using them need to be\nreally good at what they do. AI creates immense amount of leverage for\npeople with real domain expertise. And creates an a huge amount of problems for people\nwho are lazy and bad, because AI do their job better. And that's how I see it is like, there's never been a better time to invest in domain expertise, because AI\ncan actually help you to do more, right, and be more, way more productive. I think that's a great ending message for the listeners. This was an awesome show. Ross, I think this, I'm\ngonna go down and say this is one of our best shows of 2025 because we got deep in the\ndetails of everything that's changing. And I think this is probably one that, if you watched\nit, you need to go back and watch it a couple times to really understand and get everything\nout of it. And Ross, thank you so much for coming on the pod again. We look forward to\nhaving you on again soon. Thank you. Thank you. We'll see everybody next time on Marketing Against the Grain"